METROPOLITAN NASHVILLE GOVERNMENT 

OFFICE OF INTERNAL AUDIT 

Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Government 
Opioid Settlement Funds 

June 10, 2026 

 Tom Bates 

 Angie Henderson 

Delishia Porterfield      Jenneen Reed      Matthew Scanlan      Jason Spain 

Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee Members 

 
 
 
  
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 

Why This Audit Matters 
The Metropolitan Nashville Government began receiving opioid 
settlement funds as part of the national legal settlements intended to 
address the harm caused by opioid misuse and addiction. Proper 
governance, utilization, and oversight of settlement funds are imperative 
to ensure impactful steps are taken to reduce the devastating effects of 
the opioid crisis within Nashville and Davidson County. 

Audit Objectives and Scope 
The objectives of this audit are to determine if: 

•  Processes and controls are in place to ensure expended opioid 
settlement funds met uses outlined in the Tennessee-State 
Subdivision Opioid Abatement Agreement and applicable 
contracts and grant agreements. 

•  Opioid settlement funds were expended in accordance with the 

Metropolitan Nashville Opioid Steering Committee proposal for the 
approved use of the funds. 

•  Comprehensive performance measures and oversight were 

established to assess the impact of opioid settlement spending 
and gauge the success of the program. 

The scope of this audit included all Opioid Settlement Fund activities and 
transactions from March 1, 2022, through May 31, 2025. 

What We Found 
The Health Department’s opioid settlement program delivers services 
aligned with treatment and harm reduction efforts. The program primarily 
follows recommendations from the Opioid Steering Committee. 
A scope limitation was identified due to management interference. 
Employee time spent on opioid-related programs could not be 
determined due to the limitation.  
Additionally, a governance or oversight structure, similar to those used in 
other jurisdictions, has not been established. Internal controls related to 
invoice review and reporting accuracy were lacking which limited 
transparency over the use of settlement funds. Additionally, performance 
monitoring and oversight could be improved. 

 
 
 
 
What We Recommend 
Management should ensure consistent program-level review of 
contractor invoices prior to approval. Processes to document and support 
the percentage of employee time charged to opioid settlement business 
units should be established. Grant reports should be completed and 
retained, and financial data should be reconciled to supporting reports 
prior to submission. 

Health Department management should work with the Mayor’s Office to 
establish a formal oversight structure and governance process for the 
opioid settlement fund program. The oversight should include regular 
reporting on fund allocations and program outcomes. 

 
 
 
Contents 

Background 

Background                                                                               

Objectives and Conclusions                                             

Observations, Recommendations, Response         

Page 4 

Page 8 

Page 9 

Scope and Methodology                                                     

Page 23 

Appendix A – Management Response Letter             

Page 24 

Appendix B – Assessed Risk Rating                               

Page 25 

National Opioid Settlement 
The Metropolitan Nashville Government entered into the 
Tennessee State-Subdivision Opioid Abatement Agreement 
following national settlements with pharmaceutical 
manufacturers, distributors, and other entities accused of 
contributing to the opioid crisis through deceptive marketing 
and distribution practices. The settlements provide funding to 
state and local governments to address opioid misuse through 
prevention, treatment, recovery, and harm reduction initiatives.  

In Tennessee, settlement funds are distributed through three 
channels. The distribution structure is summarized in Exhibit A 
below. 

Exhibit A: Tennessee Opioid Settlement Distribution  
Percentage 

Allocation 
Category 

Description 

Opioid Abatement 
Fund 

Subdivision Fund 
(Local 
Governments) 

70% 

15% 

Funds dedicated to opioid abatement strategies. Of this amount, 35% is 
distributed to counties based on population and impact, and 65% is 
awarded through a competitive grant process. 

Distributed directly to counties and eligible municipalities. Funds may 
be used for forward-looking abatement activities or reimbursement of 
eligible past expenses. 

State General Fund 

15% 

Used by the State of Tennessee for administration and oversight of 
opioid settlement funds. 

Source: Tennessee Attorney General’s Office, Guide for Local Governments on Opioid Settlement Funds 

The Tennessee Opioid Abatement Council (OAC) is 
responsible for administering the Opioid Abatement Fund in 
Tennessee. The OAC establishes policies and reporting 
requirements for grant recipients and monitors compliance 
with approved opioid abatement strategies.  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Metropolitan Nashville Government receives Subdivision 
Fund direct payments and allocations from the Opioid 
Abatement Fund, including both the county share and 
competitive grant awards.  

Funds from the Opioid Abatement Fund must be used for 
forward-looking opioid remediation activities and align with 
approved abatement strategies outlined in the national 
settlement agreements, as incorporated into the Tennessee 
State-Subdivision Opioid Abatement Agreement. Strategies 
include expanding access to treatment and recovery services, 
supporting prevention initiatives, and implementing harm 
reduction programs.  

Local Planning and Steering Committee 
In November 2021, the Metropolitan Nashville Council 
approved Resolution RS2021-1235 authorizing participation in 
Tennessee State-Subdivision Opioid Abatement Agreement 
and related settlements. In March 2022, the Metropolitan 
Nashville Government was notified it would receive 
approximately $23 million in opioid settlement funds over an 
18-year period. The mayor requested the Behavioral Health 
and Wellness Advisory Council develop recommendations for 
using the funds. The committee’s chair subsequently 
recommended forming a steering committee composed of 
subject matter experts to develop a more detailed 
implementation plan. The Opioid Steering Committee 
ultimately recommended implementing a 15-month pilot 
program designed to connect individuals experiencing opioid 
use disorder with treatment and recovery services. 

In 2022, the Public Health Department was identified as the 
department to oversee the receipt and expenditure of 
settlement funds. The department would be responsible for 
expending the funding on related programing costs and 
reporting usage to required entities. 

Opioid Care Process Pilot Program 
To implement the pilot program, the Health Department issued 
a request for qualifications in 2024 for an Opioid Care Process 
Pilot Project intended to address high opioid prescription rates, 
rising fentanyl-related deaths, and increasing nonfatal 
overdoses in Davidson County. The pilot was designed to 
improve coordination between emergency response systems 

 
and treatment providers and increase access to prevention, 
treatment, and recovery services.  

Two organizations were selected to provide services under the 
pilot program: Mental Health Cooperative and Samaritan 
Recovery Community. Mental Health Cooperative provides 
services such as rapid engagement following overdose 
referrals, medication-assisted treatment, clinical 
assessments, detoxification and stabilization services, 
transportation, and case management. Samaritan Recovery 
Community provides respite care, medication-assisted 
treatment, transportation, and recovery support services 
designed to connect individuals with treatment and long-term 
recovery resources.  

In addition to contracted services, opioid settlement funds are 
also used to pay salaried positions within the Health 
Department’s Behavioral Health and Wellness division. These 
positions contribute to opioid-related initiatives through clinical 
services, community outreach and prevention and harm 
reduction efforts, data analysis, and stakeholder coordination. 
Opioid settlement fund expenditures by fiscal year are 
summarized below in Exhibit B. These expenditures include 
amounts from multiple opioid funding streams, including 
allocations from the Opioid Abatement Fund, competitively 
awarded grant funds, and Subdivision Fund payments received 
directly from settlement agreements. Exhibit C presents opioid 
settlement funds received by funding source and fiscal year. 

Exhibit B: Opioid Settlement Expenditures by Category and Fiscal Year 
FY24 

Expense Category 
Salaries and Benefits 

Opioid Abatement Contractors 
Medical and Program Supplies 
Medical Services 
Program Support Costs 
Information Technology 
Repairs and Maintenance 
Project Management 
Administration and Operating Expenses 
Total 

Source: Oracle E-Business Suite R-12 

$5,955 

0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
0 
$5,955 

FY25 
$1,498,091 

973,858 
169,717 
70,575 
59,207 
51,478 
50,788 
38,541 
24,973 
$2,937,227 

 
 
 
Exhibit C: Opioid Settlement Funds Received by Category and Fiscal Year 
FY24 
$3,386,977 

Settlement fund Category 
Opioid Abatement  

FY23 
$3,436,808 

Opioid Abatement Fund Competitive Grant* 
Subdivision fund 
Total 

0 
  1,737,809 
$5,174,617 

0 
  2,010,555 
$5,397,535 

Source: Oracle E-Business Suite R-12 

FY25 
   $2,695,953 

0 
      1,219,382 
$3,915,335 

Exhibit D below illustrates the Health Department’s opioid 
treatment process supported by opioid settlement funds. 
Exhibit D: Opioid Treatment Process 

Source: Behavioral Health and Wellness Services, Metro Public Health Department 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Objectives & 
Conclusions 

Were processes and controls in place to ensure expended 
opioid settlement funds met uses outlined in the Tennessee-
State Subdivision Opioid Abatement Agreement and 
applicable contracts and grant agreements? 

Scope Limitation – Unable to Determine. Opioid Settlement 
Fund expenditures were consistent with allowable uses outlined 
in Exhibit E of the Tennessee State-Subdivision Opioid Abatement 
Agreement and the grant contract with the OAC. However, control 
weaknesses were identified, including a lack of program-level 
invoice review, inaccuracies in financial reporting to the OAC, lack 
of required grant reporting, and insufficient documentation and 
oversight of payroll charged to the opioid settlement funds. 

Were opioid settlement funds expended in accordance with 
the Metropolitan Nashville Opioid Steering Committee 
proposal? 

Yes. Opioid settlement fund spending was in accordance with the 
Metropolitan Nashville Opioid Steering Committee proposal for 
the use of funds. A review of the proposal and current 
programming noted most recommended initiatives were 
implemented or partially implemented. Certain elements, such as 
a centralized intake system, transportation infrastructure, a 
formal Crisis Stabilization Unit, and independent governance 
structure, are yet to be fully implemented.  

Were comprehensive performance measures and oversight 
established to assess the impact of opioid settlement 
spending to gauge the success of the program? 

Generally, no. While performance measures, goals, and opioid 
outcome data were established and tracked, sufficient evidence 
was not available to demonstrate that performance information 
was consistently analyzed and used to evaluate the effectiveness 
of opioid settlement funded activities or assess program goals. In 
addition, a governance or oversight structure similar to those in 
other jurisdictions was not established, and ongoing monitoring 
and governance were limited which reduced transparency and the 
ability to fully assess program effectiveness. 

 
 
 
 
Observations & 
Recommendations 

Observation A 

Payroll Allocations 
to Opioid 
Settlement Funds 

Risk Level: High 

Internal controls help ensure entities achieve important 
objectives to sustain and improve performance. The 
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission (COSO), Internal Control – Integrated 
Framework, enables organizations to effectively and 
efficiently develop systems of internal control that adapt to 
changing business and operating environments, mitigate 
risks to acceptable levels, and support sound decision-
making and governance of the organization. See Appendix B 
for a description of the observation Assessed Risk Rating. 

Responses obtained from employees to verify payroll 
charges to opioid settlement fund business units were 
interfered with by program management. Emails reviewed 
during the audit showed the Behavioral Health and Wellness 
Division - Program Manager directed and edited employee 
responses prior to submission.  

Payroll-related charges accounted for approximately $1.5M 
of settlement funds expended in fiscal year 2025. The Office 
of Management and Budget Position Status Report identified 
employees with salaries charged to the opioid settlement 
business units. The Health Department’s program director 
also provided a listing of positions charged to the grant 
business unit. However, the listing could not be reconciled 
with the Position Status Report. The program director’s 
listing included positions not on the Position Status report, 
and the requested listing for the unrestricted business unit 
was not provided.  

Emails were sent directly to 34 employees listed on the 
Position Status Report requesting confirmation of their 
position title, primary responsibilities, connection to opioid-
related initiatives, and an estimate of the percentage of time 
spent on opioid-related services. Employee responses were 
compiled and reviewed. Several responses were written in a 
similar format. Additionally, some initial responses were 
later updated with higher percentage estimates. 

Due to the unusual nature of responses, emails between the 
program manager and employees related to the inquiry were 
pulled and reviewed. Emails obtained showed that the 
program manager reviewed, edited, and provided directions 
to employees regarding their responses prior to submission. 
In some cases, employees were instructed to revise their 

 
 
 
 
 
descriptions of duties or estimates of time spent on opioid-
related work before sending their responses. Employees 
were also instructed to share written responses with the 
program manager prior to sending them to the auditors.  

Per Metropolitan Code Section 2.24.300 (H), the Office of 
Internal Audit is allowed unimpeded access to personnel for 
audits. When employee confirmations are directed or edited 
by management, they do not provide independent 
confirmation of the work performed. As such, the email 
responses could not be relied upon and salary compliance 
with spending requirements could not be determined. 

In addition, a significant portion of opioid settlement funds 
has been allocated to payroll expenditures. During the audit 
period, payroll expenditures totaled approximately $1.5M, 
representing 51% of total expenditures. Settlement funding 
is finite and may not represent a consistent long-term 
funding source. Additionally, the funding is not sent in 
consistent, reliable amounts.  Thus, predicting year over year 
receipts is not possible. A contingency plan to fund these 
positions in case sufficient funds are not received annually 
was not identified. 

Salaries charged to funds requiring specific job 
responsibilities for compliance should have documented job 
descriptions, time allocations, and justifications for using 
the funding source. Without documented support for 
employee time allocation to opioid settlement funded 
business units, the risk of non-opioid related time being 
charged to settlement funding increases. Additionally, 
without contingency planning for reliable annual funding, 
there is a risk that positions supported by settlement funds 
may not be sufficiently covered each year. 

  COSO Principle 10: The organization selects and 
develops control activities that contribute to the 
mitigation of risks. 

  COSO Principle 13: The organization obtains and uses 
relevant quality information to support internal control. 

  Tennessee State-Subdivision Opioid Abatement 

Agreement 

  National Opioid Settlement Agreements, Exhibit E 

(Opioid Remediation Uses) 

  Opioid Abatement Council Community Grant 25-27 

Criteria 

 
Recommendation 

  Metropolitan Code Section 2.24.300 (H) – Access to 

Records and Personnel  

1.  Health Department management should document and 
support the percentage of employee time charged to 
opioid settlement business units. Job responsibilities 
should be clearly defined to ensure that only the portion of 
employee time spent on opioid abatement activities is 
charged to those business units.  

2.  Additionally, management should evaluate the long-term 
funding of positions supported by opioid settlement funds 
and develop a plan to transition these positions to 
alternative funding sources or adjust staffing levels as 
settlement funds are reduced or depleted. 

Management 
Response 

1.  The program started at MPHD in 2024. It was still in a 
development stage where staff were being hired and 
trained while the many public health activities were 
ongoing. 

MPHD accepts this recommendation. MPHD will conduct 
a full assessment of staff charged to opioid settlement 
funds either fully or partially. For staff working partially on 
other tasks within the BHW division, MPHD will develop a 
plan to ensure charges are made to business units that 
reflect the scope of each employee’s work. 
After fully assessing the scope of each position fully or 
partially funded by opioid settlement dollars, we will 
ensure that employee time is charged to the business 
units that best reflect each employee’s tasks. 
Additionally, MPHD will address the issues interference in 
Metro audit processes through internal administrative 
processes. 

Estimated Implementation: June 1, 2026 

2.  Concern for sustainability plan and long-term funding is a 

universal concern for all grant-funded positions. 

MPHD is already adjusting staffing levels as individuals 
vacate positions and changing focus away from provision 
of direct clinical care. 

MPHD accepts this recommendation. 

Estimated Implementation: July 1, 2026 

 
 
Observation B 

Governance and 
Oversight of 
Opioid Settlement 
Funds 

Risk Level: High 

A formal oversight structure for the opioid settlement 
program has not been established. Settlement funds are 
included in the Health Department’s budget, and ongoing 
decisions regarding the allocation and use of settlement 
funds are made internally. Additionally, reporting program 
activities to the Board of Health has been limited. 

When opioid settlement funding became available, a 
steering committee composed of community stakeholders 
was convened to evaluate local needs and recommend 
strategies for the use of the funds. The committee developed 
and submitted a proposal to the mayor outlining 
recommended priorities. The mayor directed the Health 
Department to administer the program, and a program 
director within the department oversaw program 
implementation. Since the initial proposal, program 
updates, changes, and other decisions regarding the 
allocation and use of opioid settlement funds have been 
made within the Health Department. While the initial 
steering committee identified key priorities for the use of 
funds, the proposal was developed in the early stages of 
funding. As the program has progressed, certain proposed 
initiatives were not implemented or may no longer align with 
current priorities. This highlights the need for a formal 
governance structure to reassess priorities, set and track 
program goals, guide program direction, and allow for timely 
adjustments or pivots as program needs change.  

Best practices reviewed include establishing a formal 
commission or oversight body responsible for reviewing 
funding priorities, approving expenditures, and monitoring 
program outcomes. Benchmarking with other Tennessee 
counties revealed that four of the five responding counties 
established some form of oversight or governance 
committee related to opioid settlement funds. The oversight 
structures typically include representatives from 
government agencies, healthcare providers, and community 
stakeholders and provide an additional layer of transparency 
and accountability.  

Guidance related to opioid settlement spending also 
recommends establishing transparent decision-making 
processes and monitoring activities to ensure funds are 
allocated effectively and programs are evaluated. For 
example, RAND Health, a research based organization to 
improve state and local government societal health, 

 
 
 
 
 
recommends jurisdictions develop a fair and transparent 
process for deciding where to spend settlement funds and 
avoid spending without evaluation and monitoring.  

A review of meeting minutes and agendas for the Board of 
Health and the Behavioral Health and Wellness Advisory 
Council was performed to determine whether opioid 
settlement activities were reported through established 
governance structures. The Metropolitan Public Health 
Board met 45 times during the audit period, and opioid 
settlement activities were mentioned once in March 2022. 
The Behavioral Health and Wellness Advisory Council met 26 
times during the audit period, and 7 meetings included 
discussions related to opioid settlement funds, primarily 
regarding the request for proposals process for contractors. 
The Health Department Director noted that the Behavioral 
Health and Wellness Advisory Council would not be 
appropriate to provide oversight for settlement funds, as 
some of the members may also be potential recipients of the 
funding.   

Based on interviews and documentation reviewed, no 
committees or external bodies currently provide formal 
oversight of Metropolitan Nashville Government opioid 
settlement fund spending. When formal governance and 
oversight structures are not established, there is an 
increased risk that decisions lack transparency and program 
outcomes lack independent review. 

  COSO Principle 5: The organization holds individuals 
accountable for internal control responsibilities.   

  COSO Principle 16: The organization performs 
evaluations to determine whether controls are 
present and functioning.   

  RAND, Strategies for Effectively Allocating Opioid 

Settlement Funds 

Criteria 

 
 
 
 
 
Recommendation 

Management of the Health Department should work with the 
Mayor’s Office to establish a formal oversight structure and 
governance process for the opioid settlement program. 
Ensure regular reporting on settlement fund allocations and 
program outcomes are provided to the oversight body. 

Management 
Response 

MPHD is amenable to working with the mayor’s office on 
establishing an advisory (not oversight) body for settlement 
funds. We will need to ensure that members of a community 
advisory body do not have conflicts of interests. 

The Board of Health provides oversight to MPHD. And 
implementation of opioids mitigation and prevention 
measures is best done using a public health approach. 

The steering committee was charged with establishing 
recommendations for an opioid system of care. These 
recommendations strongly informed MPHD’s RFP for county 
settlement funds as well as our application for a competitive 
OAC community grant. Both RFPs were published 
transparently, and applications were requested for this work 
following the recommendations of the steering committee. 
Awards were made that aligned with these 
recommendations. Metro’s Board of Health also approved 
any grant funds and contracts associated with county or 
competitive opioid dollars. 

MPHD also shared information and had contractors present 
on their work to the Mayor’s Behavioral Health and Wellness 
Advisory Council. 

Estimated Implementation: Tentatively September 2026 -  
dependent upon Mayor’s Office 

 
 
 
 
 
Observation C 

Reviews of contractor invoices funded by opioid settlement 
funds were not sufficiently performed at the program level. 

Contractor Invoice 
Review and 
Approval 

Risk Level: Medium 

Contractor invoices are initially reviewed by a finance 
specialist in the Health Department’s Behavioral Health and 
Wellness Division, approved by the Director of Behavioral 
Health and Wellness, and then submitted to the 
departmental finance office for payment. The review process 
is intended to ensure charges comply with contract terms, 
are allowable and accurate, and are properly supported prior 
to payment. 

All 11 invoices from Mental Health Cooperative and 
Samaritan Recovery Community during the audit period 
were tested. All invoices were consistent with the contract 
scope, allowable costs, and approved budgets. However, for 
all 11 invoices tested, charges were not sufficiently reviewed 
and compared to contract requirements at the program 
level. Invoices were not consistently traced to supporting 
documentation prior to approval, and questions regarding 
charges were often resolved only after audit inquiry.  

Salary charges appeared on every invoice. Billed positions 
and amounts were not reviewed or traced to contract 
budgeted positions during the approval process. In several 
instances, vendor position titles differed from those in the 
contract and had to be reconciled during audit testing. 
Supporting documentation was not requested during the 
original review and had to be obtained during the audit.  

One invoice included a $29,314 capital charge for a vehicle. 
Although allowable under the contract, supporting 
documentation was not submitted with the invoice or 
requested during the Health Department’s review. A 
payment of $104,066 for March 2025 services was 
incorrectly paid to Mental Health Cooperative instead of 
Samaritan Recovery Community. The error was identified by 
the vendor and later corrected. Additionally, a November 
2024 invoice was paid twice for different amounts due to a 
revised invoice submission. Although corrections were later 
made to result in a net accurate payment, the duplicate 
payment occurred without detection during the program 
level review. 

When invoice charges are not consistently reviewed and 
traced to supporting documentation prior to payment, the 

 
 
 
 
 
Criteria 

risk of improper payments, duplicate payments, and non-
compliant charges increases. 

  COSO Principle 10: The organization selects and 
develops control activities that contribute to the 
mitigation of risks. 

  COSO Principle 12: The organization deploys control 
activities through policies that establish what is 
expected and procedures that put policies into 
action. 

Recommendation 

Management of the Health Department should ensure 
program-level review of contractor invoices is performed 
prior to approval, including verification of charges to 
contract terms, budgets, and supporting documentation. 

Management 
Response 

MPHD accepts that in some cases review of invoices and 
backup documentation by the Behavioral Health and 
Wellness Program Director could be improved. We have, and 
will, institute additional controls with oversight from the 
Bureau of Population Health and the Director’s Office going 
forward. 

Estimated Implementation: June 1, 2026 

 
 
 
 
 
Observation D 

Opioid Settlement 
Fund Reporting 
Accuracy and 
Compliance 

Risk Level: Medium 

Reports submitted to the Tennessee Opioid Abatement 
Council (OAC) were inaccurate, and grant reports required 
were not provided by the Health Department. 

Counties receiving opioid settlement funds are required to 
submit semi-annual reports to the OAC to provide 
accountability and transparency regarding allocation and 
expenditure of funds and to demonstrate alignment with 
approved remediation strategies. The reports support state-
level oversight and public reporting of opioid settlement fund 
usage.  

Four semi-annual reports submitted during the audit period 
were obtained and reviewed. All reports were submitted 
timely. However, three of the four reports contained financial 
data that was inconsistent with actual spending reflected in 
the Oracle R-12 financial system. 

The first semi-annual report submitted listed $4,000,000 as 
received when only $3,425,337 had been received to date. 
Additionally, $3,993,732 was reported as allocated for the 
period of February 1, 2023, though August 31, 2023. 
However, this amount was not allocated until the FY25 
budget was approved by the Metropolitan Council in June 
2024. In another semi-annual report, total expenditures to 
date were reported as $586,574. However, amounts spent 
reported by category totaled significantly more, including 
$2,400,060 for primary prevention and $1,593,732 for 
recovery support.  

The Metropolitan Nashville Government received $6,353,570 
in grant funding to be used between July 1, 2024, and June 
30, 2027. Actual spending under the grant began in 
November 2024. The grant contract with the OAC was 
reviewed to determine required reporting. Two quarterly 
reports and one semi-annual report were required to be 
submitted during the audit period. Multiple requests were 
made to the program director for the reports. The required 
grant semi-annual report was ultimately provided. However, 
the required quarterly grant disbursement reports were not 
provided.  

When reports submitted to the OAC contain inaccurate 
financial information and required grant reports are not 
prepared or maintained, the risk that oversight bodies and 
the public receive incomplete or incorrect information 
increases. Reporting deficiencies also limits transparency 

 
 
 
 
 
Criteria 

and increases the risk of noncompliance with grant 
requirements. 

  COSO Principle 10: The organization selects and 
develops control activities to mitigate risks. 

  COSO Principle 12: The organization deploys control 
activities through policies that establish what is 
expected and procedures that put policies into 
action. 

Recommendation 

Management of the Health Department should establish 
quality assurance reporting procedures to require 
independent reconciliation of reporting amounts to financial 
reports before submission. Additionally, procedures should 
ensure all reports are submitted and retained.  

Management 
Response 

Accept. 

The audit period was from March 1, 2022-May 31, 2025. 
MPHD received Council approval to spend the funds on July 
1, 2024, at which point an RFP was issued and actual 
spending began in November 2024.  

MPHD has had full oversight of this program for 1 year when 
the audit began and less than 2 years now, and significant 
efforts in start-up, hiring, contracting and oversight have 
been established.  

We will review processes and controls between the 
Behavioral Health and Wellness Division and MPHD’s 
Finance and Administration Bureau and institute additional 
oversight from the Bureau of Population Health and the 
Director’s Office. 

MPHD submitted reports to the OAC during the audit period 
but acknowledge the errors and that information may not 
have been provided to auditors on time.  

We also note that the receipt of abatement dollars is very 
dynamic and involves multiple levels of review and approval 
(BOH, Council, Mayor’s Office) and allocation to MPHD and 
subsequent spending was delayed by Metro. In addition, 
OAC reporting requirements took some time to be 
established and evolved overtime. And that there might have 

 
 
 
been some prior confusion as to the definition of spending 
(allocation, contracted, paid, etc).  

However, consistent with the Health Department’s 
commitment to continuous quality improvement, we will 
work to improve quality assurance reporting procedures to 
require independent reconciliation of reporting amounts to 
financial reports before submission. And ensure that all 
reports are submitted. 

Estimated Implementation: June 1, 2026 

 
 
Observation E 

Performance 
Indicators 

Risk Level: Medium 

Performance measures for the opioid settlement fund 
program could be improved. Performance measures need to 
be consistently tracked, evaluated, and reported to 
demonstrate progress toward program goals and outcomes. 

Health Department management has identified 
performance measures, including reductions in overdose 
incidents and fatalities, the number of individuals served 
through care coordination and treatment services, referrals 
to prevention programs, retention in behavioral health 
services, and community outreach efforts. Each measure 
included documented, quantified targets. Additionally, the 
Health Department regularly publishes overdose 
surveillance reports containing overdose fatality trends, 
emergency department visit data, EMS overdoes response 
data, demographic information, and substance-related trend 
data. 

However, sufficient evidence was not available to 
demonstrate that opioid settlement program performance 
information was analyzed and used to evaluate program 
effectiveness. While overdose trend data was publicly 
reported and contractors are required to report performance 
data, limited documentation was provided demonstrating a 
formalized process for regularly reviewing contractor and 
program-level performance information across the opioid 
settlement program or evaluating progress toward program 
goals. 

Health Department management noted that long-term 
outcomes, such as reductions in overdose rates, will take 
time to materialize and are influenced by external factors. 
However, performance frameworks can include both short-
term output indicators and longer-term outcome measures 
to assess progress over time. 

Best practices emphasize establishing measurable 
indicators, collecting and analyzing data, and using results 
to inform decision-making. The National Association of 
Counties notes that jurisdictions should monitor both 
outputs and outcomes and should regularly review this 
information to guide program adjustments. Additionally, 
RAND guidance highlights the importance of defining 
success and evaluating whether funded programs achieve 
intended results.  

 
 
 
 
 
When performance measures are not consistently tracked, 
evaluated, and used to inform decision-making, the risk that 
program effectiveness cannot be fully assessed increases. 
Additionally, opportunities to improve outcomes and 
maximize the impact of opioid settlement funds may be 
missed. 

Criteria 

  COSO Principle 13: The organization obtains and uses 

Recommendation 

Management 
Response 

relevant quality information to support internal 
control. 

  COSO Principle 16: The organization performs 
evaluations to determine whether controls are 
present and functioning.   

  National Association of Counties, The Principles 
Quick Guide to Monitoring Opioid Settlement 
Spending 

  RAND, Strategies for Effectively Allocating Opioid 

Settlement Funds 

Health Department management should develop and 
implement a process to consistently track, analyze, and 
report performance measures for the opioid settlement 
program. Metrics should include both short-term output 
indicators and longer-term outcome measures. 
Management should utilize available data from contractors 
and internal sources to evaluate progress and inform 
decision-making. 

Rejected  

There are multiple ways in which jurisdictions track 
performance measures for opioid settlement programs. 
MPHD has performance indicators in place to track progress 
in addressing the opioid crisis through deployment of opioid 
settlement funds. While we will continue to improve ways in 
which this is done, we believe we are in compliance with 
OAC reporting requirements. 

There are performance metrics in all of the contracts issued 
in the settlement funds in the state abatement grant. 

We are consistently tracking and publicly producing regular 
data on trends in opioids overdose measures. 

MPHD will look into additional oversight over reporting from 
the Bureau of Population Health and the Director’s Office to 

 
 
 
allow for measurement, refinement and evaluation of 
progress. 

Public Health outcomes are more difficult to track. There are 
many factors that contribute to changes in the outcomes, 
many of which are outside the purview of any grant or 
settlement funds. And public health outcomes take time. 
Again, we produce opioids related outcome trends on a 
regular basis. 

 
 
Government 
Auditing 
Standards 
Compliance 

We conducted this performance audit in accordance with 
generally accepted government auditing standards. Those 
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain 
sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for 
our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We 
believe that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for 
our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. 

Scope 

The scope of this audit included all Opioid Settlement Fund 
activities and transactions from March 1, 2022, through May 31, 
2025. 

Methodology 

To accomplish our audit objectives, we performed the following 
steps: 

•  Obtained and reviewed the Metropolitan Nashville Steering 
Committee proposal and related planning documents. 

•  Reviewed contracts, invoices, and supporting 

documentation for expenditures funded by opioid 
settlement funds. 

•  Conducted interviews with Health Department personnel, 
contractors, and external stakeholders to understand 
program operations and performance measures.  

•  Performed site visits and facility tours of contracted service 

providers to observe program implementation.  
•  Assessed compliance with the Tennessee State-

Subdivision Opioid Abatement Agreement, Exhibit E, 
applicable contracts and grant requirements. 

•  Conducted benchmarking with other counties to evaluate 

oversight structures, performance measurement practices, 
and use of funds.  

•  Evaluated internal controls currently in place.  
•  Considered risk of fraud, waste, and abuse. 

Audit Team 

Mary Cole, CPA, CISA, CGFM, CFE, In-Charge Auditor 
Seth Hatfield, CPA, CIA, CFE, CCFO, Quality Assurance 
Lauren Riley, CPA, CIA, CFE, ACDA, CMFO, Metropolitan Auditor 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix A: Management Acknowledgement Letter 

 May 28, 2026  

To: 

Lauren Riley, Metropolitan Auditor  
Office of Internal Audit  
From:  Sanmi Areola, Director  

Metro Public Health Department  

Re: Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Government Opioid Settlement Funds  

On behalf of Metro Public Health Department, I am formally acknowledging receipt of the draft 
audit report, Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Government Opioid Settlement Funds, covering 
the period March 1, 2022 to May 31, 2025. We have carefully reviewed the report in its entirety. I 
acknowledge the effort and time your team invested in conducting this assessment of our Opioid 
Settlement Funds operations.  

The program was moved to the Metro Public Health Department (MPHD) in 2024. MPHD received 
Council approval to spend the funds on July 1, 2024, at which point an RFP was issued and actual 
spending began in November 2024. In the first year, the program got out two major grants, 
developed program objectives and hired personnel.  

I note that the report concluded that the use of the settlement funds was, and is, in accordance 
with what the Steering Committee recommended which are, for the most part, consistent with 
the spectrum of intervention approaches used in opioids mitigation across the country.  

The program is still in its infancy. However, the findings provide some valuable information that 
should support some programmatic quality improvement efforts moving forward.  

Appropriate internal administrative actions will be taken regarding interference by the program 
manager and inadequacy of program oversight.  

In the attached Response Matrix, we have accepted most of the recommendations. Our 
leadership team is fully committed to addressing relevant recommendations and has already 
identified solid corrective action plans in the form of new and updated procedures and staff 
training. We view quality improvement processes as an opportunity to strengthen our internal 
controls, improve our processes, and better serve our stakeholders.  

Please do not hesitate to contact us should you require any additional information or clarification.  

Thank you. 

 
 
 
Appendix B: Assessed Risk Ranking 

Observations identified during the course of the audit are assigned a risk rating, as 
outlined in the table below. The risk rating is based on the financial, operational, 
compliance or reputational impact the issue identified has on the Metropolitan 
Nashville Government.  

Rating 

Financial 

Internal Controls 

Compliance 

Public 

HIGH 

Large financial 
impact 

Remiss in 
responsibilities of 
being a custodian of 
the public trust 

MEDIUM 

Moderate financial  
impact 

LOW/ 
Emerging 
Issues 

Low financial impact 
<$10,000 

Missing, or 
inadequate key 
internal controls 

Partial controls 

Not adequate to 
identify 
noncompliance or 
misappropriation 
timely 
Internal controls in 
place but not 
consistently efficient 
or effective 

Implementing / 
enhancing controls 
could prevent future 
problems 

Noncompliance with 
applicable Federal, 
state, and local laws, 
or Metro Nashville 
Government policies 

Inconsistent 
compliance with 
Federal, state, and 
local laws, or Metro 
Nashville 
Government policies 

Generally complies 
with Federal, state, 
and local laws, or 
Metro Nashville 
Government policies, 
but some minor 
discrepancies exist 

High probability for 
negative public trust 
perception 

The potential for 
negative public trust 
perception 

Low probability for 
negative public trust 
perception 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
