METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT OF NASHVILLE AND DAVIDSON COUNTY 
AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES 
December 9, 2025 
On Tuesday, December 9, 2025, at 4:00 p.m., the Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee met 
in the Metropolitan Courthouse, 2nd Floor, Committee Room 1. The following people attended 
the meeting: 
Others 
Lauren Riley, Metropolitan Auditor 
Erica Haber, Department of Law 
Chief Swann, Fire Department and OEM 
Clerk Day, Circuit Court Clerk 
Kelly Caffrey, OEM  
Jonathan Fowler, OEM 
Drusilla Martin, OEM 
Layron Cater, Circuit Court Clerk 
Brittany Hayes, Circuit Court Clerk 
Andre Walton, Circuit Court Clerk 
Kevin Brown, Metro Finance 
John Crosslin, Crosslin 
Mark England, Crosslin 
Jennifer Pedginski, Metro Finance 
Andrew Walczak, Metro Finance 
Bill Walker, Office of Internal Audit 
Seth Hatfield, Office of Internal Audit 
Paul Gogonelis, Office of Internal Audit 
Laura Henry, Office of Internal Audit 
Jeremy Waldorf, Office of Internal Audit 
Committee Members Present 
Tom Bates, Tennessee Society of CPAs  
Angie Henderson, Vice Mayor 
Jenneen Reed, Director of Finance 
Jason Spain, Council Member 
Matthew Scanlan, Chamber of Commerce 
Delishia Porterfield, Council Member 
Committee Member Absent 
Quorum present? Yes 
CALL MEETING TO ORDER 
Mr. Bates called the meeting to order.  
PUBLIC COMMENTS 
There were no public comments.   
APPROVAL OF MINUTES  
A motion to approve meeting minutes for September 23, 2025, was made, seconded, and 
carried.  
OLD BUSINESS  
Discussion on the Investigation of Allegations at Nashville General Hospital 
Ms. Riley noted only one recommendation was still open, but it was being remediated this week. 
The remaining step was to upload signed forms to CMS.  Ms. Riley noted this would end the 
agenda updates relating to the investigation as all recommendations were remediated.  Director 
Reed noted the progress and work done by Nashville General Hospital to improve following the 
investigation.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee  
December 9, 2025, Meeting Minutes 
Page 2 
NEW BUSINESS 
Discussion on the Audit of the Office of Emergency Management Asset and Fiscal Management 
Processes  
Ms. Riley discussed the audit scope, observations, and recommendations. Chief Swann 
discussed the actions being taken to address the recommendations, and the items remaining.  
Councilmember Spain inquired if changes to spending would affect the ability to respond to 
emergencies. Chief Swann noted discussions with Metro Finance on best practices and 
ensuring funding is available in the event of an emergency. Director Reed noted the previous 
day’s budget discussion with OEM and the productive conversations at the meeting. No further 
discussion ensued.  
Discussion on the Audit Recommendations Follow-Up of the Audit of the Circuit Court Clerk’s 
Office 
Ms. Riley discussed the results of the follow-up audit. Ms. Riley noted that all recommendations 
except one were fully implemented.  One recommendation was partially implemented, but it was 
implemented shortly after the follow-up audit. Vice Mayor Henderson inquired about the results 
of the audit relative to any changes since parking automation has occurred. Clerk Day described 
the changes in ticketing and collections. Vice Mayor Henderson inquired about the process of 
applying parking tickets with the automation of parts of the process. Clerk Day walked through 
the ticketing to collections process for parking and moving violations. No further discussion 
ensued.  
Discussion on the Audit of Metropolitan Nashville Parking Violations Fines and Fees 
Ms. Riley discussed the audit scope, observations, and recommendations. Councilmember 
Porterfield inquired why the Circuit Court Clerk rejected the recommendation related to using a 
Metro credit card. Clerk Day discussed the lawsuit between Metro and the Circuit Court Clerk’s 
office many years ago. Clerk Day noted his decision to seek input from the Attorney General 
before agreeing to the recommendation. Vice Mayor Henderson inquired if other constitutional 
offices utilized Metro issued credit cards. Director Reed and Ms. Riley were unsure of the 
answer but noted an answer would be provided after some research.  
Mr. Scanlan inquired about what calculation was being used prior to the audit. Clerk Day noted 
he believed a State law of withholding three months’ salaries applied to his office, but the audit 
determined the law did not apply. Clerk Day noted the funds not turned over would have 
covered those salaries or future projects. Clerk Day noted the budget projections for revenues 
each year used as a basis for fees remitted to Metro. A discussion ensued related to collection 
rates on parking tickets and revenue increases.  
Clerk Day discussed the budget discussions with Metro Finance. Director Reed noted the 
Clerk’s cooperation with Metro Finance, and the steps being taken to address the monthly 
statement submissions. No further discussion ensued.  
Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee and Metropolitan Nashville Office of Internal Audit 
Bylaws annual review 
Ms. Riley discussed the best practice to annually review and approve the bylaws. Ms. Riley 
noted the bylaws may be changed at any time, but there is a standing agenda item annually to 
ensure they are appropriately reviewed. Ms. Riley noted the Office of Internal Audit reviewed the 
bylaws as well and did not have any recommended changes.  
 
 
Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee  
December 9, 2025, Meeting Minutes 
Page 3 
Councilmember Spain inquired about the bylaws addressing the roles of the committee 
members and appointment of Chair and Vice Chair. A discussion ensued related to the bylaws 
including language about the appointment of Chair and Vice Chair and the timing of the 
appointments.  Ms. Haber noted some options for language to address the appointments 
annually.  
Councilmember Porterfield requested the language include the chain of command in the 
absence of the chair at a meeting. Vice Mayor Henderson discussed the role of elected officials 
on the committee and concerns in serving as Chair or Vice Chair. A discussion ensued related 
to best practices and the roles of the independently appointed members of the committee.   
A motion to defer the bylaws two meetings to give time to develop language regarding 
committee officers was made, seconded, and carried.   
PROJECT STATUS 
Recommendation Implementation and Ongoing Projects 
Ms. Riley covered the status of current open recommendations and projects. No further 
discussion ensued.    
OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS 
Budget and Staffing 
Ms. Riley reported that the Office of Internal Audit is under budget. Ms. Riley noted the hiring of 
an Investigator 2, Caleigh Harris. Ms. Riley noted the retirement of James Carson. Ms. Riley 
noted a vacancy in an Auditor 1 position had been filled that day with the acceptance of an offer.     
End of Public Meeting 
A motion to adjourn the public meeting was made, seconded, and carried. 
The public meeting adjourned after approximately 1 hour 17 minutes. 
The next regularly scheduled meeting is December 18, 2025, at 4:00 p.m. 
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
The minutes for the December 9, 2025, Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee meeting are 
respectfully submitted. 
Lauren Riley, Metropolitan Auditor 
Secretary, Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee 
Approved by the Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee on December 18, 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
