METROPOLITAN NASHVILLE  
METROPOLITAN AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETING AGENDA 
September 23, 2025, 4:00 p.m. 
Committee Room 1 
205 Metropolitan Courthouse 
I. 
II. 
Call Meeting to Order (Tom Bates – Committee Chair) 
Public Comment 
•  Pursuant to Tennessee Public Chapter No. 300, time is reserved for the public to comment 
on matters germane to items on the meeting agenda. A sign-up sheet will be provided 
before the meeting is called to order. A maximum of 8 persons who write their names on 
the sign-up sheet provided, before the meeting is called to order, will be allowed to share 
their comments for a maximum of 2 minutes per person, and this comment period will be 
held at the commencement of the meeting. 
III. 
Approval of Minutes (Tom Bates – Committee Chair) 
•  Approval of Minutes for August 7, 2025, meeting 
IV. 
Old Business 
•  Discussion on the Investigation of Allegations at Nashville General Hospital issued February 
27, 2025. (Lauren Riley – Metropolitan Auditor) 
V. 
New Business  
•  Discussion on the Investigation Recommendations Follow-up – Investigation of Metro Social 
Services Contracts issued July 8, 2025. (Lauren Riley – Metropolitan Auditor) 
•  Discussion on the Audit Recommendations Follow-up – Audit of the Metro Nashville 
Homeless Impact Division issued July 18, 2025. (Lauren Riley – Metropolitan Auditor) 
•  Discussion on the request for an audit of the Office of Homeless Services. (Lauren Riley – 
Metropolitan Auditor) 
•  Discussion on the Investigation of Allegation at the Davidson County Clerk’s Office issued on 
August 21, 2025. (Bill Walker – Assistant Director) 
•  Discussion of External Audit Plan for the year ended June 30, 2025. (Crosslin) 
•  Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee Annual Self-Assessment (Lauren Riley – 
Metropolitan Auditor) 
VI. 
Internal Audit Project Status (Lauren Riley – Metropolitan Auditor) 
•  Recommendation implementation follow-up status 
•  On Going Projects 
VII. 
Other Administrative Matters (Lauren Riley – Metropolitan Auditor) 
•  FY2026 Budget Update 
•  Office of Internal Audit Staffing 
VIII. 
Consideration of Items for Future Meetings (Tom Bates – Committee Chair) 
 
METROPOLITAN NASHVILLE  
METROPOLITAN AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETING AGENDA 
September 23, 2025, 4:00 p.m. 
IX. 
X. 
XI. 
Adjournment of Public Meeting – Next Regular Meeting Tuesday, December 8, 2025. 
Call for a motion to enter executive session (Tom Bates – Committee Chair) 
Executive Session Agenda – (Tom Bates – Committee Chair) 
•  Discussion on the ongoing audit of the Metropolitan Nashville FY2025 Financial Statements 
audit with Crosslin. (External Auditor) 
• 
If needed, discussion of pending or ongoing audits or investigations. (Lauren Riley – 
Metropolitan Auditor) 
Note: Upon a majority vote of committee members in attendance for the public portion of the meeting, 
the Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee may hold confidential, nonpublic executive sessions 
to discuss the following items (T.C.A. § 9-3-4051): 
• 
Items deemed not subject to public inspection under T.C.A. §§ 10-7-5032 and 10-7-5043 and 
all other matters designated as confidential or privileged under this code; 
•  Current or pending litigation and pending legal controversies; 
•  Pending or ongoing audits or audit related investigations; 
• 
Information protected by federal law; and  
•  Matters involving information under T.C.A. § 9-3-4064 where the informant has requested 
anonymity. 
If any accommodations are needed for individuals with disabilities who wish to be present at 
this meeting, please request the accommodation through hubNashville at 
https://nashville.gov/hub-ADA-boards or by calling (615) 862-5000. Requests should be 
made as soon as possible, but 72 hours prior to the scheduled meeting is recommended. 
1 T.C.A.§ 9-3-405(d). Establishment of audit committee, Notice requirements, Open meetings, Confidential, nonpublic 
executive session. 
2 T.C.A. § 10-7-503. Records open to public inspection, Schedule of reasonable charges, Costs. 
3 T.C.A § 10-7-504. Confidential records. 
4 T.C.A. § 9-3-406. Establishment of process for confidential reporting of suspected illegal, improper, wasteful or 
fraudulent activity, Retaliatory activities prohibited. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
