METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT OF
NASHVILLE AND DAVIDSON COUNTY
METROPOLITAN NASHVILLE AUDIT COMMITTEE BYLAWS
PURPOSE
SCOPE
The Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee is to ensure that
the
Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County (Metropolitan
Nashville Government) has effective, efficient, and sustainable internal
controls over its major risks.
To the extent permitted by the Metropolitan Charter the Metropolitan
Nashville Audit Committee is authorized to conduct
financial audits,
performance audits, or other audit services including investigation and
fraud concerning any department,
disposition of reported incidents of
board, commission, officer, agency, or office of
the Metropolitan
Government which receives direct services from or to which funds are
appropriated by the Metropolitan Government or which the Metropolitan
Government
long-term indebtedness.
guarantee for
Departments, boards, commissions, officers, agencies, and offices of the
Metropolitan Government means those entities which encompass all of the
governmental and corporate functions previously performed by Davidson
County and the City of Nashville existing at
the
Metropolitan Government, and any public entity whose existence is created
or authorized by the Metropolitan Charter or the Metropolitan Council.
the formation of
provides
a
RESPONSIBILITIES
Financial Statements
• While the financial statement audit engagement is ongoing meet in
executive session with the external auditor near the mid-point of the
audit engagement and prior to final issuance of the comprehensive
annual financial report, to review progress, including any difficulties
encountered, with the audit engagement and follow-up as appropriate.
• Review final audit reports and accept, or not accept, the audit results.
• Review with Metropolitan Nashville Government management and the
external auditors all matters requiring communication to the Committee
under generally accepted auditing standards.
Risk Management and Internal Control
• Understand the scope of internal and external auditors' reviews of
internal controls over financial reporting and government service
activities, and obtain reports on significant observations and
together with department, board, commission,
recommendations,
officer, agency, or office management’s responses.
• Engage with the Metropolitan Auditor in performing a Metropolitan
Nashville Government entity-wide risk assessment to form an audit
work plan.
Approved July 11, 2017
Page 1 of 3
METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT OF
NASHVILLE AND DAVIDSON COUNTY
METROPOLITAN NASHVILLE AUDIT COMMITTEE BYLAWS
• Meet with auditee after issuance of audit report by Metropolitan Auditor
to discuss observations. Hold follow-up to monitor corrective actions
implemented by auditee.
Internal Audit
• Review and approve the internal audit work plan and all major changes
to the plan.
• Review and approve the Division of Metropolitan Audit Bylaws
annually.
• Assure continued independence of the Metropolitan Auditor. Ensure
there are no unjustified restrictions or limitations to the discharge of
internal audit responsibilities.
• Review annually the activities, staffing, and organizational structure of
the internal audit function.
• Review the effectiveness of
the internal audit
function,
including
compliance with generally accepted government auditing standards.
• Recommend the appointment of the Metropolitan Auditor.
• For cause remove the Metropolitan Auditor.
• At least once per year, review the performance of the Metropolitan
Auditor and concur with the annual compensation and salary
adjustment.
Reporting Responsibilities
•
Issue an annual report to the Metropolitan Nashville Council and Mayor
regarding Committee activities, issues, and related recommendations.
• Provide an open avenue of communication between internal audit, the
external auditors, and department, board, commission, officer, agency,
or office management.
• Review any other government issued reports related to committee
responsibilities.
Other Responsibilities
• Ensure committee members undergo appropriate orientation upon
appointment.
• Review and assess the adequacy of the committee bylaws annually,
requesting approval for proposed changes, and ensuring appropriate
disclosure as may be required by law or regulation.
• Annually confirm that all responsibilities outlined in these bylaws have
been carried out.
Approved July 11, 2017
Page 2 of 3
METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT OF
NASHVILLE AND DAVIDSON COUNTY
METROPOLITAN NASHVILLE AUDIT COMMITTEE BYLAWS
COMPOSITION
The composition and selection of committee members will
follow the
provisions provided in Metropolitan Code of Law, Section 2.24.300(E)
Division of Metropolitan Audit.
MEETINGS
The Committee will meet at
least once per quarter, with authority to
convene additional meetings, as circumstances require. The Committee
will invite members of department, board, commission, officer, agency, or
office management, auditors or others to attend meetings and provide
pertinent
information as necessary. Meeting agendas along with
appropriate briefing materials will be prepared and provided in advance to
members by the Metropolitan Auditor. Minutes will be prepared by the
Metropolitan Auditor.
Meeting agendas and minutes/proceedings are to be posted directly to the
Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee page on Nashville.gov at:
http://www.nashville.gov/Government/Boards-and-Commissions.aspx.
Meeting agendas and minutes/proceedings postings should be prepared in
a searchable electronic format.
Meeting agendas will be posted six calendar days in advance of the
meeting date. Approved meeting minutes will be posted within two
workdays of approval by the Committee.
Approved July 11, 2017
Page 3 of 3
