METROPOLITAN NASHVILLE GOVERNMENT 
OFFICE OF INTERNAL AUDIT 
Audit Recommendations Follow-Up – Audit of 
Metro Nashville Homeless Impact Division  
July 18, 2025 
Burkley Allen    Tom Bates 
  Angie Henderson 
 Courtney Johnston     Jenneen Reed      Matthew Scanlan 
Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee Members 
 
 
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
Purpose 
On March 30, 2023, the Office of Internal Audit issued the Audit of the 
Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division. The audit report included 
seven recommendations. All seven recommendations were accepted by 
management for implementation. The Office of Internal Audit guidelines 
require monitoring and follow-up to ensure that the recommendations 
assessed as high or medium risk are appropriately considered, effectively 
implemented, and yield intended results.  
Audit Objectives and Scope  
The objectives of this follow-up audit were to determine if the recommended 
actions or an acceptable alternative were implemented as of June 30, 2025.  
The scope of the follow-up audit included seven accepted recommenda-
tions that management reported as implemented. 
Note: The Homeless Impact Division was formerly a part of Social Services. 
Since the audit, the Office of Homeless Services was created and is the 
owner of the recommendations. 
What We Found  
Of the seven recommendations, six were fully implemented and one 
was partially implemented.  
Recommendation 
Status 
A.1 
B.1 
C.1 
D.1 
D.2 
E.1 
F.1 
Implemented 
Partially Implemented 
Implemented 
Implemented 
Implemented 
Implemented 
Implemented 
What We Recommend  
Management should continue efforts to implement the one remaining 
partially implemented recommendation.  
 
 
 
Contents 
Background and Methodology.………………….………….….3 
Scope …………………..………………………………...………4 
Follow-Up Results…………………………………………….….4 
Appendix A – Management Response Letter……...….……...9 
Background 
Methodology 
The initial audit report encompassed governance and oversight 
of the Homelessness Planning Council, Homeless Management 
Information System usage, and internal controls over access to 
homelessness data between January 1, 2020, and December 
31, 2021. The audit report included seven recommendations. All 
seven recommendations were accepted by management for 
implementation.     
Note: The Homeless Impact Division was formerly a part of 
Social Services. Since the audit, the Office of Homeless 
Services was created and is the owner of the recommendations. 
The Office of Internal Audit will close a recommendation only for 
one of the following reasons: 
•  The recommendation was effectively implemented.  
•  An alternative action was taken that achieved the intended 
results. 
•  Circumstances have so changed that the recommendation is 
no longer valid. 
•  The recommendation was not implemented despite the use 
of all feasible strategies or due to lack of resources. When a 
recommendation is closed for these reasons, a judgment is 
made on whether the objectives are significant enough to be 
pursued later in another assignment. 
To achieve the audit objectives, auditors performed the following 
steps:  
Interviewed management regarding implementation efforts. 
• 
•  Reviewed relevant SOC 2 Type 2 documentation. 
•  Reviewed Homeless Management Information System users 
and end-user license agreements. 
•  Reviewed Homelessness Planning Council and Executive 
Planning meeting minutes. 
•  Reviewed newly established policies, procedures, and plans. 
•  Evaluated internal controls currently in place.  
•  Considered risk of fraud, waste, and abuse. 
•  Considered information technology risks. 
Follow-Up – Audit of Metro Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
3
 
 
Scope 
The scope of the follow-up audit included the seven 
recommendations that management reported as implemented. 
Implementation was reviewed as of June 30, 2025. 
Implementation 
Status Definitions  
The following table shows the guidelines followed to determine 
the status of implementation. 
Recommendation Implementation Status 
Implemented 
The department or agency provided sufficient 
and appropriate evidence to support the 
implementation of all elements of the 
recommendation and the recommendation’s 
implementation caused or significantly 
influenced the benefits achieved. 
Partially  
Implemented 
The department or agency provided some 
evidence to support implementation progress 
but not all elements of the recommendation 
were implemented. 
Not  
Implemented 
Or 
No Longer  
Applicable 
The department or agency did not implement 
a recommendation because: a) of lack of 
resources; b) an alternative action was taken 
that achieved the intended results; c) 
circumstances have so changed that the 
recommendation is no longer valid. 
Follow-Up 
Results 
The following are the audit recommendations made in the original 
investigation report dated March 30, 2023, and the current 
implementation status of each recommendation based on our 
review of information and documents provided by Homeless 
Services.  
Follow-Up – Audit of Metro Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
4
 
 
 
A.1  
Recommendation  
Implementation Actions 
Status 
B.1 
Recommendation  
Coordinate with the Homelessness Planning Council to ensure 
that the plan continues to be relevant through periodic reviews of 
goals, benchmarks, and monitoring activities. Ensure that 
appropriate information about implementation status is 
maintained for internal and external stakeholders.   
Risk Level: High 
The strategic plan refresh was completed for July 2023 - June 
2026. The Strategic Plan Tracker is reviewed and updated in the 
All Chair Subcommittee meeting that occurs monthly. The 
Strategic Plan Tracker includes activities, tasks, status, groups 
responsible by task, notes, and a proposed timeline for 
completion.  
IMPLEMENTED 
Update the policies and procedures manual to include all 
required Housing and Urban Development policies and 
procedures or document the reason for the exclusion.   
Risk Level: High 
Implementation Actions 
The Coordinated Entry policies and procedures were updated. 
However, 5 of the 11 (45%) originally identified required policies 
and procedures remain exceptions. The Office of Homeless 
Services is currently working on another update to address the 
remaining exceptions.   
Status 
PARTIALLY IMPLEMENTED 
Outstanding Actions 
Continue the update process for the Coordinated Entry policy 
and procedure manual to incorporate all required Housing and 
Urban Development policies and procedures.  
Revised Implementation Date: September 2, 2025 
Follow-Up – Audit of Metro Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
5
 
C.1  
Recommendation  
Establish an encampment management team comprising of 
Metropolitan Nashville departments, community organizations, 
and community leaders involved in addressing homelessness. 
The encampment management team should be responsible for 
creating an encampment management plan that includes 
strategies and policy directions to address the physical 
management of homeless encampments and establish criteria 
for determining and coordinating the types of interventions to 
undertake at encampments.    
Risk Level: High 
Implementation Actions 
MHID completed a community Encampment Outdoor Housing 
Plan. This plan included input from Community partners, multiple 
Metro departments, committee leaders, and people with lived 
experience.   
Status 
IMPLEMENTED 
D.1 
Recommendation  
Implementation Actions 
Ensure that access to the Homeless Management Information 
System is granted only after new users have completed all 
necessary steps and an end-user license agreement is properly 
executed. Retain copies of all end-user license agreements for 
review.    
Risk Level: High 
A random sample of users was selected from a list of all users 
granted access for the period from 10/01/2022 - 11/30/2024 and 
supporting end-user license agreements were reviewed. Results 
of the sample may be projected to the population.    
Status 
IMPLEMENTED 
Follow-Up – Audit of Metro Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
6
 
D.2  
Recommendation  
Annually request a SOC 2 Type 2 report from WellSky to ensure 
data is secure and always available.     
Risk Level: High 
Implementation Actions 
SOC 2 Type 2 reports were obtained. Supporting documentation 
was reviewed to confirm.  
Status 
E.1 
IMPLEMENTED 
Recommendation  
Establish a process for periodic completion and review of the 
Housing and Urban Development resources that improve both 
system administration and software vendor oversight.     
Risk Level: Medium 
Implementation Actions 
Procedures were developed and implemented. Supporting 
documentation was reviewed. 
Status 
IMPLEMENTED 
F.1 
Recommendation  
Document and retain meeting minutes for all Homelessness 
Planning Council and Executive Planning meetings.      
Risk Level: Medium 
Implementation Actions 
Procedures were developed and implemented. A random 
sample of meetings was selected for review of associated 
meeting minutes. Results of the sample can be projected to the 
population.  
Status 
IMPLEMENTED 
Follow-Up – Audit of Metro Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
7
 
Government 
Auditing 
Standards 
Compliance 
We conducted this performance audit in accordance with 
generally accepted government auditing standards. Those 
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain 
sufficient, appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for 
our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. We 
believe that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis 
for our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives  
Audit Team 
Jeremy Waldorf, In-Charge Auditor 
Lauren Riley, CPA, CIA, ACDA, CFE, CMFO, Metropolitan Auditor  
Follow-Up – Audit of Metro Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
8
 
Appendix A: Management Acknowledgement Letter 
FREDDIE O’CONNELL 
            MAYOR 
APRIL CALVIN 
    DIRECTOR 
METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT OF NASHVILLE AND DAVIDSON COUNTY 
OFFICE OF HOMELESS SERVICES 
PO BOX 196300 
NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE 37219-6300 
July 16, 2025 
Ms. Lauren Riley 
Metropolitan Auditor 
Office of Internal Audit 
404 James Robertson Parkway, Suite 190 
Nashville, TN 37219 
RE: Follow-up Audit – Metro Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
Newly created stand-alone office titled: Office of Homeless Services 
Dear Ms. Riley: 
This letter acknowledges receipt of the initial draft report for the follow-up audit of the Metro Nashville Homeless 
Impact Division.  The Homeless Impact Division was formerly a part of Metro Social Services, which is now the 
newly created stand-alone office titled the Office of Homeless Services. Metro Homeless Impact Division 
completed the initial audit on March 30, 2023. From the initial audit we reviewed the recommendations and made 
the necessary programmatic implementations. During this follow-up we were in the process of revising our Policy 
and Procedures for our Coordinated Entry Process discussed in B.1.  The Coordinated Entry Program recently 
closed the 30-day public comment period for the annually revised Policy and Procedures. All changes will be 
reviewed and revised by the Coordinated Entry Oversight Sub-Committee, Office of Homeless Services, and the 
Homelessness Planning Council.  Currently, B.1 is listed as partially implemented until we have a final revised 
copy of the Policy and Procedures.  
We agree to fully implement the changes and review annually for any federal mandates or required modifications.  
Thank you for the recommendations and patience during this time. 
Sincerely, 
April Calvin, Director 
Office of Homeless Services 
Metro Government of Nashville and Davidson County 
Follow-Up – Audit of Metro Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                    
 
 
                                                                                               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
