METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT OF NASHVILLE AND DAVIDSON COUNTY 
AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETING MINUTES 
September 23, 2025 
On Tuesday, September 23, 2025, at 4:00 p.m., the Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee 
met in the Metropolitan Courthouse, 2nd Floor, Committee Room 1. The following people 
attended the meeting: 
Others 
Lauren Riley, Metropolitan Auditor 
Ann Mikkelsen, Department of Law 
April Calvin, Homeless Services 
Ginny Weslch, Council Member 
Renee Pratt, Social Services 
Yuri Hancock, Social Services 
Brenda Wynn, Davidson County Clerk 
Tami Drake, Davidson County Clerk 
Kevin Brown, Metro Finance 
John Crosslin, Crosslin 
Mark England, Crosslin 
Jennifer Pedginski, Metro Finance 
Bill Walker, Office of Internal Audit 
Seth Hatfield, Office of Internal Audit 
Paul Gogonelis, Office of Internal Audit 
Committee Members Present 
Tom Bates, Tennessee Society of CPAs  
Angie Henderson, Vice Mayor 
Jenneen Reed, Director of Finance 
Jason Spain, Council Member 
Committee Member Absent 
Matthew Scanlan, Chamber of Commerce 
Delishia Porterfield, Council Member 
Quorum present? Yes 
CALL MEETING TO ORDER 
Mr. Bates called the meeting to order.  
PUBLIC COMMENTS 
Tim Lee spoke on the requested audit of Homeless Services.  
Derreck McCloud spoke on the requested audit of Homeless Services.  
Mark Chandler spoke on the requested audit of Homeless Services.  
Allison Cantway spoke on the requested audit of Homeless Services.  
Michael Lacy spoke on the requested audit of Homeless Services.  
Steve Reiter spoke on the requested audit of Homeless Services.  
Liz Mallard spoke on the requested audit of Homeless Services.  
Dede Byrd spoke on the requested audit of Homeless Services.  
APPROVAL OF MINUTES  
A motion to approve meeting minutes for August 7, 2025, was made, seconded, and carried.  
OLD BUSINESS  
Discussion on the Investigation of Allegations at Nashville General Hospital 
Ms. Riley presented an overview of the recommendations that have been implemented. Ms. 
Riley noted only one recommendation was still open, but it was pending work done by a hired 
law firm.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee  
September 23, 2025, Meeting Minutes 
Page 2 
Vice Mayor Henderson inquired about the timeline for the CitiValet lawsuit. Ms. Riley noted the 
office only knew a lawsuit was filed and would not have a timeline. Vice Mayor Henderson 
inquired about DocuSign as a Metro-wide contract. A discussion ensued about Nashville 
General Hospital as a component entity and its ability to use Metro contracts. Director Reed 
added that Metro Finance and the hospital’s hired financial consultant have been working 
together to improve processes and to smoothly close FY25.  
NEW BUSINESS 
Discussion on the Investigation Recommendations Follow-up – Investigation of Metro Social 
Services Contracts  
Ms. Riley noted the first two projects on the agenda would be covered as a preface to the 
requested audit since they touched on the audit request area. Ms. Riley went through the results 
of the follow-up on the investigation. Ms. Riley noted all recommendations were implemented. 
No questions were raised.  
Discussion on the Audit Recommendations Follow-up – Audit of the Metro Nashville Homeless 
Impact Division 
Ms. Riley discussed the results of the follow-up on the Homeless Impact Division. Ms. Riley 
noted the division was a part of Social Services at the time of the original audit, but the division 
became the Office of Homeless Services after the audit. Ms. Riley noted that all 
recommendations except one were fully implemented.  One recommendation was partially 
implemented, but it was implemented shortly after the follow-up audit. Ms. Riley noted the 
recommendation related to items in policy that were approved after the report issuance by the 
Homelessness Planning Council.  A brief discussion ensued about reporting back once the 
recommendation was verified as implemented.  
Discussion on the request for an audit of the Office of Homeless Services 
Ms. Riley introduced the audit requests and documents provided related to the request. Ms. 
Mikkelsen and Mr. Bates discussed the order of operations for the previous request heard by 
the Audit Committee. Mr. Bates noted the requestor and the department head each had five 
minutes to discuss the request, and then the Audit Committee discussed. 
A motion to follow the procedure of five minutes per presenter and then Committee discussion 
was made, seconded, and carried.  
Councilmember Welsch presented her request for an audit of the Office of Homeless Services. 
She discussed her reasons for the request.   
Director Calvin discussed the Office of Homeless Services. She discussed the work the office 
performs and the previous audits and investigations at the office. (An annual report handout was 
provided to the Audit Committee) 
Councilmember Spain asked Director Calvin to discuss remedial actions taken after the 
discovery of purchases on an expired contract. Director Calvin noted areas and actions taken by 
the department to improve. Director Reed and Mr. Crosslin discussed the Single Audit and the 
work performed related to Homeless Services.   
 
Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee  
September 23, 2025, Meeting Minutes 
Page 3 
Vice Mayor Henderson noted input and concerns received from other Metro Council members 
related to the audit request. Mr. Bates inquired about how adding the audit would affect the rest 
of the annual audit plan. Ms. Riley noted that since it was so late in the plan year, she would not 
recommend removing any audits. Thus, the plan would not change other than the addition.  
Councilmember Spain inquired about typical timing of auditing newly created departments. 
Director Reed noted the role the Office of Financial Accountability may play in new departments. 
Ms. Riley stated the office tries to audit departments ever 5 years, and 3 years or so would be 
normal to give a department time to set up procedures and have support for audit work 
performed.  Vice Mayor Henderson inquired how long the Office of Homeless Services has been 
operating. Director Calvin stated the department was created two years ago. Director Reed 
noted the hiring of a new financial policy compliance position to assist in monitoring compliance 
with financial policies.  
Vice Mayor Henderson discussed the scoping of the audit and finding a beneficial scope to 
address concerns.  Ms. Riley noted past audit work and where a current audit would be best 
scoped. Ms. Riley noted focusing on financial operations would be best.  
A motion to add an Audit of Office of Homeless Services Financial Processes to the 2025 
annual audit plan was made and seconded.   
Discussion ensued. Director Reed and Vice Mayor Henderson noted the good work being done 
by the Office of Homeless Services, the appreciation for the speakers, and the audit being 
constructive for the department. Director Reed disclosed being part of the Strobble family and a 
donor. Ms. Mikkelsen inquired if she had a financial interest in the department. Director Reed 
stated she was only a donor. Ms. Mikkelsen inquired if she believed she could act in a fair and 
unbiased manner in the vote. Director Reed stated she could. Ms. Mikkelsen stated she did not 
believe there was a conflict of interest.   
The motion was approved.  
Discussion on the Investigation of Allegation at the Davidson County Clerk’s Office 
Mr. Walker discussed the investigation into a theft allegation at the Davidson County Clerk’s 
Office. Mr. Walker noted how the theft was identified and the process followed to appropriately 
report it. Mr. Walker stated the allegation was substantiated and went through the additional 
recommendations to address identified control weaknesses.   
Councilmember Spain inquired about the need to collect cash by the office. Clerk Wynn noted 
the reasons for accepting cash, and a discussion ensued about being cashless. Mr. Bates 
inquired about the system permissions allowing either license to be printed. A discussion 
ensued about reasons businesses go from one business license type to the other and how long 
the need to change had been occurring.  
Vice Mayor Henderson clarified the length of time the employee was performing the task and 
the potential for the theft to have occurred longer than what was recorded on camera. Vice 
Mayor Henderson inquired about actions taken to ensure employees who resign but allegations 
are substantiated against are not later hired for another position in the future. Ms. Riley noted 
she could not answer that but would reach out to Metro Human Resources.  
Clerk Wynn reiterated the office’s commitment to ensure that money collected is secured and 
appropriately managed.  
 
Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee  
September 23, 2025, Meeting Minutes 
Page 4 
Discussion of External Audit Plan for the year ended June 30, 2025 
Mr. Crosslin went through the external auditor’s plan for the annual financial audit. Mr. Crosslin 
covered pertinent information and required communications.  
Mr. Bates inquired about the experience and background of the Audit Manager for the external 
audit of Nashville General Hospital. Mr. Crosslin noted the manager’s background and previous 
experience with healthcare. Mr. Bates inquired about risks and staffing at the hospital. Mr. 
Crosslin noted the work being performed at the hospital and the status of it.  
A discussion ensued around audit procedures and the SEFA. Internal procedures around 
federal expenditures and receipts were discussed. Director Reed explained compensated 
absences and the changes related to the financial statements due to them.  
Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee Annual Self-Assessment 
Ms. Riley went through the annual self-assessment noting the importance of ensuring 
compliance with bylaws. Ms. Riley noted the results were acceptable for each bylaw. No further 
discussion ensued.  
PROJECT STATUS 
Recommendation Implementation and Ongoing Projects 
Ms. Riley covered the status of current open recommendations. No further discussion ensued.    
OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS 
Budget and Staffing 
Ms. Riley reported that the Office of Internal Audit is under budget and explained a few 
expenses coming up. Ms. Riley noted the office has one open position, but the applicant pool 
had just closed. Hiring of the position would occur soon.   
End of Public Meeting 
A motion to adjourn the public meeting was made, seconded, and carried. 
The public meeting adjourned after approximately 1 hour 33 minutes. 
The next regularly scheduled meeting is December 9, 2025, at 4:00 p.m. 
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
The minutes for the September 23, 2025, Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee meeting are 
respectfully submitted. 
Lauren Riley, Metropolitan Auditor 
Secretary, Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee 
Approved by the Metropolitan Nashville Audit Committee on December 9, 2025 
 
 
 
 
 
