FINAL REPORT  
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville 
Homeless Impact Division 
March 30, 2023 
A Report to the  
Audit Committee 
Mayor  
John Cooper 
Social Services Director 
Renee Pratt 
Homeless Impact Division 
Executive Director 
April Calvin 
Audit Committee Members 
Tom Bates 
Kelly Flannery 
Sharon Hurt 
Jim Shulman 
Kyonztè Toombs 
Metropolitan 
Nashville 
Office of 
Internal Audit 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
March 30, 2023 
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless 
Impact Division 
BACKGROUND 
The Homeless Impact Division is a division within the Metropolitan Nashville 
Social Services Department. The division provides staffing and other resources 
to assist the Nashville-Davidson County Continuum of Care Homelessness 
Planning Council in carrying out its duties and responsibilities. The 
responsibilities and duties are established by Chapter 2.144.020 of the 
Metropolitan Nashville Code of Ordinances. 
OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE  
The audit objectives were to determine if the Homeless Impact Division: 
•  Coordinated the governance and oversight responsibilities and activities of 
the Homelessness Planning Council. 
•  Maintained a Homeless Management Information System to effectively 
coordinate service and programs delivery. 
•  Established internal controls to ensure authorized access to homelessness 
data and equitable service delivery. 
The scope of the audit included the operations of the Homeless Impact Division   
between January 1, 2020, and December 31, 2021.  
WHAT WE FOUND 
The Homeless Impact Division staff is dedicated to ending homelessness. 
Established policies and procedures guide homeless outreach, the coordinated 
entry process, and the Homeless Management Information System. 
However, the coordinated entry policies and procedures did not include all 
areas required by the Federal Housing and Urban Development agency. The 
progression of adopted 2019-2022 Strategic Community Plan was hindered due 
to the COVID-19 pandemic and is currently going through a revision. However, 
documentation of plan progression while it was in place was not readily 
available. The division also lacks an encampment management team or plan. 
Access and security controls of the Homeless Management Information System 
were not consistently applied. Additionally, the capability of the software could 
be enhanced.   
Why We Did This Audit 
The audit was initiated due 
to the importance of 
homelessness response 
and support in urban 
areas. 
What We Recommend 
• Update coordinated 
entry policies and 
procedures to include all 
Housing and Urban 
Development 
requirements. 
• Monitor the Strategic 
Community Plan. 
• Monitor and control 
access to client-level 
data in the Homeless 
Management 
Information System. 
• Develop an encampment 
management plan. 
• Explore the full potential 
of the HMIS software 
application. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GOVERNANCE 
The Homelessness Planning Council makes decisions and recommendations as the Nashville-Davidson 
County Continuum of Care’s governing. The governance structure is established by Title 24 of the Code 
of Federal Regulations. Responsibilities of the Homelessness Planning Council include implementing a 
coordinated and focused approach to ending homelessness, developing measurable objectives, 
maintaining accurate and current data on homeless populations, and educating interested parties on 
issues related to homelessness. 
The Homelessness Planning Council consists of 25 voting members. The Mayor appoints 8 members, 
the Nashville-Davidson County Continuum of Care elects 14 members, and the Vice Mayor appoints 3 
members. Five of the voting members are required to have experienced homelessness. The 
Metropolitan Homeless Planning Council charter authorized the creation of committees and working 
groups. A total of 14 committees existed during the audit period. See Appendix C. 
The Homeless Impact Division is the primary staffing for the Homelessness Planning Council. The 
division is overseen by an executive director that reports to the director of Social Services. In June 
2022, the Metropolitan Nashville Council unanimously passed ordinance BL2021-971 that establishes 
an independent Office of Homeless Services with the aim of stabilizing policy and homelessness 
response efforts between mayoral administrations. The opening of the office is pending final 
administrative procedures. 
BACKGROUND 
The Homeless Emergency Assistance and Rapid Transition to Housing (HEARTH) Act of 2009 created a 
collaborative, inclusive, community-based inspired process and approach to planning and managing 
effective homeless assistance resources and programs to end homelessness in the country. The 
HEARTH Act also codifies into law the Continuum of Care planning process, a longstanding part of 
United States Housing and Urban Development’s application process to assist homeless individuals 
and families by providing greater coordination in responding to their needs. 
The Nashville Davidson County Continuum of Care Homelessness Planning Council was established for 
the purpose of facilitating the process and approach of the Nashville Davidson County Continuum of 
Care program. The Metropolitan Development and Housing Agency is the collaborative applicant of 
the continuum of care process. The Homeless Impact Division is the planning and coordinating entity.  
The Homeless Impact Division provides staffing and resources to assist the Homelessness Planning 
Council in carrying out its duties and responsibilities. The assistance includes serving as the lead for the 
Homeless Management Information System and Coordinated Entry. The Homeless Impact Division does 
not provide direct services to the homeless, but instead it coordinates with and provides referrals to 
private and governmental agencies that provide services directly to the homeless population. The 
Homeless Impact Division operates through five divisions including Outreach, Coordinated Entry, 
Homeless Management Information System, Landlord Management, and Grant Coordination. The 
Homeless Impact Division has 14 full-time positions. The budget versus actual expenditures for the last 
three fiscal years can be seen in Exhibit 1 below. 
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 1: Operating Budget Appropriations vs. Actual Expenditures 
Fiscal Year   
Budget 
Actual 
Variance 
2021 
2020 
2019 
 $      1,511,700  
 $       1,222,546  
 $      289,154  
 $      2,062,200  
 $       1,886,439  
 $      175,761  
 $      2,058,700  
 $       1,837,914  
 $      220,786  
Source: Metropolitan Nashville Oracle R12 Reporting System 
The Homeless Impact Division utilizes a Homeless Management Information System. The Homeless 
Management Information System is a local system used to collect client-level data and data on the 
provision of housing and services to homeless individuals and families or those at risk of homelessness. 
Each Continuum of Care is responsible for selecting a Homeless Management Information System 
software that complies with the United States Housing and Urban Development Agency’s data 
collection, management, and reporting standards. The Housing and Urban Development Agency set the 
standards to ensure the privacy and safety of client data. 
All organizations and agencies involved in working with the homeless are encouraged to have access to 
the system, and organizations receiving government funds are required to enter client level data into 
the system. Approximately 36 organizations and agencies have access to the local Homeless 
Management Information System. 
Exhibit 2 shows available and utilized beds information as coordinated with stakeholders by the 
Homeless Impact Division.  
Exhibit 2: Bed Utilization by Housing Type 
Housing Type 
Available 
Beds 
Occupied 
Beds 
Utilization 
Rate 
Year-Round 
Beds 
Occupied 
Beds 
Utilization 
Rate 
2020 
2021 
Emergency Shelter 
Other Permanent Housing 
Permanent Supportive Housing 
Rapid Re-housing 
Safe Haven 
Transitional Housing 
1387 
119 
1033 
243 
5 
335 
1208 
103 
998 
243 
5 
219 
Totals 
3122 
2776 
87% 
87% 
97% 
100% 
100% 
65% 
89% 
Source: Homeless Management Information System Coordinated Entry Module 
Coordinated Entry 
1794 
101 
1041 
607 
7 
327 
912 
94 
1093 
607 
4 
191 
3877 
2901 
51% 
93% 
105% 
100% 
57% 
58% 
75% 
Coordinated Entry is a Continuum of Care established process to coordinate access, assessment, 
prioritization, and referrals quickly and equitably to housing and services. The coordinated entry process 
is Housing First oriented, such that people are housed quickly without preconditions or service 
participation requirements.  
The Coordinated Entry data collected is defined by the Homeless Management Information Systems 
Data Standard elements for Coordinated Entry. Collecting the data also supports management reporting 
on specific parts of the coordinated entry process, such as active client lists, coverage and demand, and 
permanent housing placements and retention. Exhibit 3 shows client-level information assessed and 
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
2 
 
 
 
input into the Coordinated Entry system since the Homeless Impact Division became the Homeless 
Management Information System lead in November 2018. 
Exhibit 3: Client-level Information from the Homeless Management Information System by Race 
Race 
2018 
2019 
2020 
2021 
Totals 
Black, African American, or African 
     513  
  1,102  
  1,515  
  1,661  
  4,791  
White 
     546  
     948  
  1,186  
  1,637  
  4,317  
American Indian, Alaska Native, or Indigenous 
        17  
        34  
        44  
        78  
     173  
Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander 
          2  
        10  
        10  
          8  
        30  
Asian or Asian American 
          6  
        16  
        16  
        25  
        63  
Other 
        28  
        18  
        13  
        35  
        94  
Total 
  1,112  
  2,128  
  2,784  
  3,444  
  9,468  
Source: Homeless Management Information System Coordinated Entry Module 
Assessment and Prioritization 
Assessment and prioritization ensure individuals with the greatest needs receive priority for housing and 
homeless assistance available in the continuum of care. During prioritization, the coordinated entry staff 
use assessment data to compare the participant’s level of need with the needs of others on the priority 
list. Staff prioritize the participant for housing and supportive services based on the continuum of care’s 
prioritization standards. The prioritization standards are documented in written policies and procedures 
and applied consistently. The Homeless Impact Division coordinates referrals with 10 independent 
homeless organizations and agencies that provide homeless services as part of the continuum of care 
program. Exhibit 4 shows total referrals made through the coordinated entry system during the audit 
period. 
Exhibit 4: Coordinated Entry Referrals by Race and Housing Type 
Housing Type 
Black, African, 
African American 
White 
Undisclosed 
Other 
Totals 
2020 
2021 
2020 
2021 
2020 
2021 
2020 
2021 
Individual Rapid 
Rehousing 
Family Rapid Rehousing 
Youth Rapid Rehousing 
Other 
Totals 
71 
55 
50 
61 
237 
92 
105 
17 
187 
401 
120 
20 
25 
29 
194 
131 
37 
3 
168 
339 
7 
1 
4 
4 
2 
4 
- 
9 
13 
106 
7 
30 
5 
93 
3 
265 
441 
421 
109 
753 
16 
15 
156 
366 
1,724 
Source: Homeless Management Information System Coordinated Entry Module 
Low Barrier Housing Collective 
The Low Barrier Housing Collective service provided by the Homeless Impact Division was established to 
connect individuals and families experiencing homelessness to private housing units. The units offer 
flexible screening criteria in exchange for benefits designed to mitigate risk for the property owner. Data 
reviewed during the audit showed outreach to approximately 31 property managers managing an 
approximate total of 14,362 existing units in their portfolios.  
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
3 
 
 
  
  
 
OBJECTIVES AND CONCLUSIONS 
1.  Did the Homeless Impact Division effectively coordinate the governance and oversight 
responsibilities of the Homelessness Planning Council?   
Generally, yes.  The Homeless Impact Division has knowledgeable staff committed to ending 
homelessness.  Policies and procedures were in place to guide staff in coordinating homeless 
services with providers. However, the coordinated entry policies and procedures manual could be 
improved to include all Housing and Urban Development required policies and procedures. (See 
Observation B.) The Homeless Impact Division also did not have an encampment management and 
intervention plan during the period under review. (See Observation C.) 
The Homelessness Planning Council implemented a three-year Strategic Community Plan spanning 
between 2019 to 2022. In 2021, the Homeless Impact Division documented the progress made since 
the inception of the Strategic Community Plan. However, documentation to verify the progress on 
the plan was not readily available. In November 2021, the Homelessness Planning Council voted to 
form an ad hoc committee to review and update the Strategic Community Plan. The Homeless 
Impact Division should ensure that review and monitoring procedures are in place to keep the 
Homelessness Planning Commission updated once the revision is completed. Additionally, 
documentation related to progression of the plan should be retained made readily available. (See 
Observation A.)  
Homelessness Planning Council meetings were regularly scheduled, held, and attended by 
management and staff of the Homeless Impact Division. Documentation of minutes of 
Homelessness Planning Council meetings were not maintained by the Homeless Impact Division. 
(See Observation F).  
2.  Did the Homeless Impact Division establish a Homeless Management Information System to 
effectively coordinate service and programs delivery?  
Generally, yes.  The Homeless Impact Division in collaboration with the Metropolitan Development and 
Housing Agency has established a Homeless Management Information Systems as required by the 
United States Housing and Urban Development Agency. The Emergency Solutions Grant administered by 
the Housing and Urban Development Agency is the primary source of funding for the Homeless 
Management Information System, including acquisition, staffing and maintenance.  
Authorized agencies of the Nashville-Davidson County Continuum of Care have access to enter 
information about homeless individuals and families. The agencies can also retrieve information about 
completed referrals performed by the Homeless Impact Division.  Various reports are available in the 
Homeless Management Information System and are presented to the Housing and Urban Development 
Agency, the Homelessness Planning Council, and other committees as needed. 
The Nashville-Davidson Continuum of Care adopted WellSky Community Services cloud-based system as 
its Homeless Management Information System. WellSky complies with the Housing and Urban 
Development's data collection, management, and reporting standards. The Homeless Impact Division is 
the lead agency for the Homeless Management Information System and has staff trained to operate and 
manage the system. However, certain aspects of managing the Homeless Management Information 
System software could be improved. (See Observations D and E.) 
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
4 
 
 
 
 
3.  Did the Homeless Impact Division establish internal controls to ensure authorized access to data and 
equitable service delivery? 
Generally, yes. Access to the Homeless Management Information System is controlled by the 
Homeless Impact Division and is granted only after following a series of Housing and Urban 
Development guidelines and requirements. The guidelines include the completion of a new user 
checklist, a data-sharing agreement, and an end-user license agreement. However, not all access 
granted conformed to the guidelines. Additionally, controls surrounding Homeless Impact Division 
staff access to the coordinated entry data could be improved and the division did not ensure the 
presence of a secured cloud data hosting environment. (See Observation D.) 
The Homeless Impact Division performs the coordinated entry process which connects those at risk 
for homelessness to housing services. However, there was no evidence of coordinated entry process 
monitoring and evaluation by management. (See Observation E).  
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
5 
 
 
  
AUDIT OBSERVATIONS  
Internal control helps entities achieve important objectives and sustain and improve performance. The 
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, Internal Control – Integrated 
Framework (COSO), enables organizations to effectively and efficiently develop systems of internal 
control that adapt to changing business and operating environment, mitigate risks to acceptable levels, 
and support sound decision-making and governance of the organization. The audit observations listed 
are offered to assist management in fulfilling their internal control responsibilities. 
Observation A– Strategic Community Plan  
A Strategic Community Plan was established in July 2019 and was expected to make an impact of 
reducing the number of individuals experiencing homelessness by 25 percent within the three years. 
However, the COVID-19 pandemic had a negative impact on the progression of the plan. In 2021, the 
Homeless Impact Division reviewed the plan and noted which outcomes of the plan were complete, in-
progress, or not started.  
In November 2021, a motion was passed by the Homelessness Planning Commission to review and 
update the Strategic Community Plan. An audit procedure was conducted to review and verify the 
progress made on the Strategic Community Plan while the plan was in place. Documentation was not 
readily available to verify the progression of the plan.  As of January 2023, the strategic plan refresh has 
not been completed. When completed, regular monitoring and status reporting to the Homelessness 
Planning Council should be conducted to assist with the successful progression of the plan. Additionally, 
plan implementation documentation should be retained and made readily available for review by 
internal and external stakeholders. Without regular monitoring and status reporting, the effectiveness 
of the Strategic Community Plan will be impaired. 
Criteria:    
•  COSO, Control Activities–Principle 10. The organization selects and develops control activities 
that contribute to the mitigation of risks to the achievement of objectives to acceptable levels. 
•  COSO, Control Activities–Principle 16. The organization selects, develops, and performs ongoing 
and/or separate evaluations to ascertain whether the components of internal control are 
present and functioning. 
Assessed Risk Rating:  
High                       
Recommendation for management of the Homeless Impact Division:  
Coordinate with the Homelessness Planning Council to ensure that the plan continues to be relevant 
through periodic reviews of goals, benchmarks, and monitoring activities. Ensure that appropriate 
information about implementation status is maintained for internal and external stakeholders. 
Observation B– Coordinated Entry Policies and Procedures   
The coordinated entry policies and procedures manual did not include all the required policies and 
procedures from the United States Housing and Urban Development Agency. The Housing and Urban 
Development Agency Coordinated Entry Notice establishes new requirements that Continuums of Care 
and recipients of Continuums of Care Program and Emergency Solutions Grants Program funding must 
meet related to the development and use of a centralized or coordinated assessment system. Only 12 
out of 23 (52 percent) of required Housing and Urban Development policies and procedures were 
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
6 
 
 
implemented by the Homeless Impact Division. Coordinated entry policies in Nashville were compared 
with Memphis, and no significant differences in the incorporation of Housing and Urban Development 
Agency required policies were identified. 
Coordinated Entry is a critical part of the path to ending homelessness. Not implementing these 
required policies and procedures could harm the effectiveness of the coordinated entry process and 
possibly result in the loss of federal funding. 
Criteria:    
•  COSO, Control Activities–Principle 12. The organization deploys control activities through 
policies that establish what is expected and procedures that put policies into action. 
•  Coordinated Entry Process Self-Assessment Tool – U.S. Department of Housing and Urban 
Department 
•  Outline for a Continuum of Care's Coordinated Entry "Policies & Procedures" Document – U.S 
Department of Housing and Urban Department  
Assessed Risk Rating:  
High                       
Recommendation for management of the Homeless Impact Division:  
Update the policies and procedures manual to include all required Housing and Urban Development 
policies and procedures or document the reason for exclusion.  
Observation C– Encampment Management Plan   
The Homeless Impact Division reported a count of 16 homeless encampment locations but does not 
have an encampment plan. Homelessness in Nashville impacts not only the homeless, but also 
government resources, local businesses, and the communities in which the encampments are located. 
An encampment plan designed with the specific characteristics and changing needs of the homeless 
population will provide an effective strategy and policy directions to monitor and deal with the growth 
and conditions of encampments. Lack of an encampment plan will negatively impact the homeless 
population and the Nashville community.  
Criteria:    
•  COSO, Control Activities–Principle 10. The organization selects and develops control activities 
that contribute to the mitigation of risks to the achievement of objectives to acceptable levels. 
•  COSO, Control Activities–Principle 12. The organization deploys control activities through 
policies that establish what is expected and procedures that put policies into action. 
•  COSO, Control Activities–Principle 16. The organization selects, develops, and performs ongoing 
and/or separate evaluations to ascertain whether the components of internal control are 
present and functioning. 
•  7 Principles for Addressing Encampments – U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness 
Assessed Risk Rating:  
High                       
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
7 
 
 
 
Recommendation for management of the Homeless Impact Division:  
Establish an encampment management team comprising of Metropolitan Nashville departments, 
community organizations, and community leaders involved in addressing homelessness. The 
encampment management team should be responsible for creating an encampment management plan 
that includes strategies and policy directions to address the physical management of homeless 
encampments and establishes criteria for determining and coordinating the types of interventions to 
undertake at encampments. 
Observation D– Homeless Management Information System User Access and Data 
Security   
The Homeless Management Information System team did not maintain complete documentation of 
system user access. Additionally, a process was not established for ensuring that data housed in the 
cloud environment with the system vendor is secure.  
The Housing and Urban Development Agency privacy and security standards seek to protect the 
confidentiality of personal information while allowing for reasonable, responsible, and limited uses and 
data disclosures. Thirteen out of 46 (28 percent) Homeless Management Information System users did 
not have a completed end-user license agreement, 3 out of 46 (6 percent) users had end-user 
agreements with missing information, and 3 out of 46 (6 percent) users had dates on the end-user 
agreements that were after the dates their agency was granted access.  
Additionally, the Homeless Impact Division did not request assurance from the Homeless Management 
Information System, WellSky, that data housed in their cloud environment is secured. Client data cannot 
be trusted to be secure without assurance that the service provider has controls in place for the system. 
Criteria:    
•  COSO, Control Activities–Principle 10. The organization selects and develops control activities 
that contribute to the mitigation of risks to the achievement of objectives to acceptable levels. 
•  COSO, Control Activities-Principle 11-The organization selects and develops general control 
activities over technology to support the achievement of objectives. 
Assessed Risk Rating:  
High                       
Recommendation for management of the Homeless Impact Division:  
1.  Ensure access to the Homeless Management Information System is granted only after new users 
have completed all necessary steps and an end-user license agreement is properly executed. 
Retain copies of all end-user license agreements for review.  
2.  Annually request a SOC 2 Type 2 report from WellSky to ensure data is secure and always 
available. 
Observation E – Homeless Management Information System Software Review and 
Update   
The Homeless Impact Division as the Homeless Management Information System lead agency did not 
perform regular reviews of the software using tools provided by the Housing and Urban Development 
Agency. The agency provides tools to assist communities in monitoring, evaluating, and improving the 
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
8 
 
 
Homeless Management Information System. Specifically, the Vendor Capacity checklist provides an 
overview of both Housing and Urban Development requirements of a Homeless Management 
Information System and common technical and functional features communities may require and expect 
from the system.  
As a critical first step in identifying and changing racial and ethnic disparities in a community’s systems 
and services, the Race and Ethnicity tool uses Homeless Management Information System data to 
facilitate analysis of racial disparities among individuals experiencing homelessness. For example, 
analysis of data would alert management to investigate why other minority groups are not being 
assessed into the coordinated entry system compared to Black or White racial groups.  
Homeless Impact Division staff acknowledged operational issues with the software and a lack of 
knowledge about the full capability of the Homeless Management Information System. Failure to use 
the tools provided by the Housing and Urban Development increases the risk of that the Homeless 
Management Information System will not be used in the most effective and efficient manner. 
Criteria:  
•  COSO, Control Activities–Principle 16. The organization selects, develops, and performs ongoing 
and/or separate evaluations to ascertain whether the components of internal control are 
present and functioning. 
•  Homeless Management Information System Software Vendor Capacity and System 
Administrator Checklists – U.S. Housing and Urban Development Agency 
Assessed Risk Rating:  
Medium                                                                                                  
Recommendation for management of the Homeless Impact Division:  
Establish a process for periodic completion and review of the Housing and Urban Development 
resources that improve both system administration and software vendor oversight. 
Observation F – Retention of Homelessness Planning Council Meeting Minutes   
The Homeless Impact Division did not retain copies of all meeting minutes held by the Homelessness 
Planning Council and the Planning Executive Committee. Eight of the 24 (33 percent) Homelessness 
Planning Council meetings and 14 out of 22 (64 percent) Planning Executive meetings reviewed did not 
have copies of meeting minutes. Without meeting minutes, transparency to the public is diminished. 
Additionally, management is not able to provide evidence how the Homeless Impact Division responded 
to mission-critical deliberations and decisions made by the Homelessness Planning Council and Planning 
Executive Committees. 
Criteria:    
•  COSO, Control Activities–Principle 10. The organization selects and develops control activities 
that contribute to the mitigation of risks to the achievement of objectives to acceptable levels. 
Assessed Risk Rating:  
Medium                                                                                                  
Recommendation for management of the Homeless Impact Division:  
Document and retain meeting minutes for all Homelessness Planning Council and Executive Planning 
meetings. 
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
9 
 
 
GOVERNMENT AUDITING STANDARDS COMPLIANCE 
We conducted this performance audit in accordance with generally accepted government auditing 
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient, appropriate 
evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions based on our audit objectives. 
We believe that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our observations and conclusions 
based on our audit objectives. 
METHODOLOGY 
To accomplish our audit objectives, we performed the following steps: 
▪ 
Interviewed key personnel within the Homeless Impact Division. 
▪  Reviewed Metropolitan Nashville ordinances related to the Homeless Planning Council and the 
Homeless Impact Division. 
▪  Reviewed relevant Federal Housing and Urban Development guidelines, policies, and procedures, 
and the 2019-2022 Strategic Community Plan to end homelessness. 
▪  Evaluated internal controls in place during the audit period. 
▪  Performed inquiries and observations of procedures. 
▪  Reviewed sample selections to determine the effectiveness of internal controls. 
▪  Reviewed reports from the Homeless Management Information System and the Low Barrier Housing 
Collective website. 
▪  Considered risk of fraud, waste, and abuse. 
▪  Considered information technology risks. 
AUDIT TEAM 
Jessica Henderson, CFE, Staff Auditor 
Innocent Dargbey, CPA, CMFO, CICA, Auditor-in-Charge 
Seth Hatfield, CPA, CIA, CCFO, CFE, Quality Assurance 
Lauren Riley, CPA, CIA, CFE, CMFO, ACDA, Metropolitan Auditor 
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
10 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A – MANAGEMENT RESPONSE AND ACTION PLAN 
JOHN COOPER 
  MAYOR 
                                                                   RENEE PRATT 
                                          EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT OF NASHVILLE AND DAVIDSON COUNTY 
                  METROPOLITAN SOCIAL SERVICES 
                                                                                                                     800 2ND AVENUE NORTH, SUITE 100 
                                                                            NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE 37201 
March 3, 2023 
Lauren Riley, Metropolitan Auditor 
Office of Internal Audit 
400 James Robertson Parkway, Ste, 190  
Nashville, TN  37219 
RE: Audit of Metro Homeless Impact Division  
       Between Jan.1, 2020 to December 31, 2021 
Dear Mrs. Riley, 
Metro Social Services is in receipt of the Audit conducted on Metro Homeless Impact Division and is satisfied with 
the audit work completed and resulting recommendations. Your review began during a time that the entire nation 
was experiencing the “great resignation” and as a Metro Department we were not exempt.  Since then, we have 
developed and cultivated new employees and we have already implemented a majority of the suggested measures to 
address items ranked with a medium to high risk. Please review the Management Response and Action Plan 
attached. 
We appreciate the work you and your staff put into this assignment.  Innocent Dargbey really worked to fully 
understand our process. If you have any questions, please let me know. 
Sincerely, 
Renee Pratt, Executive Director 
Metro Social Service 
CC:   
Jessica Henderson, CFE, Staff Auditor 
Innocent Dargbey, CPA, CMFO, CICA, Auditor-in-Charge 
Seth Hatfield, CPA, CIA, CCFO, CFE, Quality Assurance 
Lauren Riley, CPA, CIA, CFE, CMFO, ACDA, Metropolitan Auditor 
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A – MANAGEMENT RESPONSE AND ACTION PLAN 
We believe that operational management is in a unique position to best understand their operations 
and may be able to identify more innovative and effective approaches and we encourage them to do so 
when providing their response to our recommendations. 
Recommendation 
Concurrence and Corrective 
Action Plan 
Proposed Completion 
Date 
Risk 
H 
H 
Recommendations for the management of the Homeless Impact Division to: 
A.1 Coordinate with the Homeless 
Planning Council to ensure that the 
plan continues to be relevant through 
periodic reviews of goals, 
benchmarks, and monitoring 
activities. Ensure that appropriate 
information about implementation 
status is maintained for internal and 
external stakeholders. 
Implemented – 2/4/2022 
Accept. The 2019 Strategic 
Community Plan was 
interrupted by the COVID-19 
pandemic. Agencies and local 
government had to pivot to 
provide life saving measures. 
Once the Governor’s “Safer at 
Home” restrictions were lifted 
the Community decided to 
discontinue the use of the 
prior strategy and begin a 
Strategic Plan Refresh. This 
made regular monitoring and 
status reporting obsolete. The 
Homelessness Planning 
Council identified a small ad 
hoc committee to complete 
the Strategic Plan Refresh. 
Currently, a newly identified 
committee will finalize the 
plan by adding metrics and 
outcomes. The Homelessness 
Planning Council will continue 
to review the process. 
B.1 Update the policies and 
procedures manual to include all 
required Housing and Urban 
Development policies and procedures 
or document the reason for the 
exclusion. 
  6/30/2023 
Accept. The Coordinated 
Entry Policies and Procedures 
were reviewed by the 
Continuum of Care, Executive 
Committee, and the 
Homelessness Planning 
Council. We will enter the 
comment period to address 
this concern. Required and 
recommended policies are 
being reviewed and all 
changes will need to be 
accepted by the Continuum of 
Care and the Homelessness 
Planning Council prior to 
modifying.  
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
12 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
APPENDIX A – MANAGEMENT RESPONSE AND ACTION PLAN 
Recommendation 
C.1 Establish an encampment 
management team comprising of 
Metropolitan Nashville departments, 
community organizations, and 
community leaders involved in 
addressing homelessness. The 
encampment management team 
should be responsible for creating an 
encampment management plan that 
includes strategies and policy 
directions to address the physical 
management of homeless 
encampments and establish criteria 
for determining and coordinating the 
types of interventions to undertake at 
encampments.  
Concurrence and Corrective 
Action Plan 
Accept. MHID completed a 
community Encampment 
Outdoor Housing Plan, 
composed by Community 
partners, multiple Metro 
departments, committee 
leaders, and people with lived 
experience during frequent 
community meetings. This 
strategy was drafted from 
other cities making great 
strides on ending 
homelessness and it aligns 
with federal guidance of 
UISCH’s recently released 
strategy.  
D.1 Ensure that access to the 
Homeless Management Information 
System is granted only after new 
users have completed all necessary 
steps and an end-user license 
agreement is properly executed. 
Retain copies of all end-user license 
agreements for review. 
D.2 Annually request a SOC 2 Type 2 
report from WellSky to ensure data is 
secure and always available.  
Accept. While previous MHID 
management did not retain all 
end user agreements, this has 
since been rectified. All 
current and future HMIS users 
cannot access the system until 
necessary documents and 
trainings have been 
completed. All completed 
agreements are retained and 
stored. HMIS staffing 
experienced 100% turnover at 
the start of this audit. Under 
current leadership, we have 
rebuilt the entire HMIS 
Department. The new team 
has since obtained system 
level training, vendor 
bootcamp, HUD technical 
assistance and other 
professional development 
opportunities by attending 
National Data Conferences. 
Accept. Annually, we will 
request a copy of the SOC 
Type 2 Report to ensure that 
our data is secure with 
WellSky. 
H 
H 
H 
Proposed Completion 
Date 
Implemented - 10/18/2022 
 Implemented – 9/15/2022 
Implemented – 3/21/2022 
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
13 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
Proposed Completion 
Date 
 Implemented – 9/1/2022 
APPENDIX A – MANAGEMENT RESPONSE AND ACTION PLAN 
Recommendation 
E.1 Establish a process for periodic 
completion and review of the Housing 
and Urban Development resources 
that improve both system 
administration and software vendor 
oversight. 
M 
Concurrence and Corrective 
Action Plan 
Accept. During the Nation’s 
“Great Resignation” HMIS 
staffing had 100% turnover 
during the audit. While staff 
did not have knowledge about 
the full capability of the 
software during this audit 
period because they were still 
in the training period, HMIS is 
now fully knowledgeable. The 
tools for system 
administration and software 
oversight are currently 
completed quarterly.  
F.1 Document and retain meeting 
minutes for all Homelessness Planning 
Council and Executive Planning 
meetings. 
M 
Accept. Under current 
leadership, minutes and 
agendas are maintained on a 
Metro server using a device 
provided by Metro. 
 Implemented – 10/8/2021 
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
14 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
APPENDIX B – ASSESSED RISK RATING 
Observations identified during the course of the audit are assigned a risk rating, as outlined in the table 
below. The risk rating is based on the financial, operational, compliance or reputational impact the issue 
identified has on the Metropolitan Nashville Government. Items deemed “Low Risk” will be considered 
“Emerging Issues” in the final report and do not require a management response and corrective action 
plan. 
Rating 
Financial 
Internal Controls 
Compliance 
Public 
HIGH 
Large financial impact 
>$25,000 
Remiss in 
responsibilities of being 
a custodian of the 
public trust 
MEDIUM 
Moderate financial 
impact 
$25,000 to $10,000 
LOW/ 
Emerging 
Issues 
Low financial impact 
<$10,000 
Missing, or 
inadequate key 
internal controls 
Noncompliance with 
applicable Federal, 
state, and local laws, 
or Metro Nashville 
Government policies 
High probability 
for negative 
public trust 
perception 
Partial controls 
Not adequate to 
identify 
noncompliance or 
misappropriation 
timely 
Internal controls in 
place but not 
consistently efficient 
or effective 
Implementing / 
enhancing controls 
could prevent future 
problems 
Inconsistent 
compliance with 
Federal, state, and 
local laws, or Metro 
Nashville Government 
policies 
Generally complies 
with Federal, state, 
and local laws, or 
Metro Nashville 
Government policies, 
but some minor 
discrepancies exist 
The potential for 
negative public 
trust perception 
Low probability 
for negative 
public trust 
perception 
Efficiency 
Opportunity 
An efficiency opportunity is where controls are functioning as intended; however, a modification 
would make the process more efficient 
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX C – ADDITIONAL RESOURCES 
Committee 
 Equity & Diversity Committee 
 Consumer Advisory Board (CAB) 
 Data Committee 
PIT Count Sub-Committee 
Shelter Committee 
Governance Charter Committee 
HMIS Oversight Committee 
Membership Committee 
Nominating Committee 
Duties and Responsibilities 
Evaluates for inequities in homeless services to determine if race, 
ethnicity, stereotypes, 
and biases influence how assistance is delivered. 
Develops/implements strategies, and identifies resources 
available, to reduce 
disparities in the homeless system 
Is intended to be a diverse group of individuals with lived 
experience working to provide input on specific CoC matters and 
connect those experiencing homelessness to resources while 
addressing barriers and establishing an information network for 
homeless needs and resources. 
 Promotes and ensures the collection of quality, comprehensive 
and relevant data about: 1) people experiencing homelessness in 
Nashville/Davidson County; and 2) the efforts of the local 
Continuum of Care (CoC) to address and end homelessness here. 
The purpose of these activities is to equip the CoC with the 
planning, research, communications, and related tools needed to 
ensure that any incidence of homelessness in Nashville will be 
rare, brief and occur only once. 
HUD requires communities across the country to take a census of 
the people who are literally experiencing homelessness on one 
night during the last ten days of January. This is a snapshot of the 
homeless population in Nashville on one night. This committee 
plans and oversees the annual count and operates as a 
subcommittee of the Data Committee. 
Coordinates among outreach, shelter, and government providers 
to ensure people living outdoors have the information they need 
to access shelter and services during heat, cold, floods, and other 
extreme weather situations. 
Reviews the Governance Charter and makes any 
recommendations for change or revision at least annually. 
Develops, recommends, and revises as needed any bylaws and/or 
policies and procedures deemed necessary for the ongoing 
operation of the Planning Council and CoC General Membership. 
Recommends policy guidance for the CoC Planning Council on 
issues related to the implementation and use of the Homeless 
Management Information System (HMIS). The Committee also 
ensures that HMIS users adhere to the established policies or 
requirements. 
Collects and manages membership applications for the CoC 
General Membership and ensures membership policies and 
practices are followed. The committee also leads efforts to 
recruit, retain, and motivate diverse membership participation in 
the CoC, as well as track attendance at General Membership 
meetings for the purposes of voting rights and offering committee 
support. 
Recruits and selects qualified, willing members of the CoC and/or 
community at-large to serve as Planning Council members and 
presents the nominees to the CoC General Membership as 
requested. 
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
16 
 
 
 
APPENDIX C – ADDITIONAL RESOURCES 
Committee 
Duties and Responsibilities 
Performance Evaluation Committee 
Standards of Care Committee 
Veteran Workgroup 
Youth Action Board 
Youth & Young Adult Steering Committee 
Annually prepares scoring matrices for HUD CoC programs, 
provides trainings for potential grant applicants, scores grant 
applications, and presents preliminary ranking of grant proposals 
to the Planning Council for approval. 
The Continuum of Care (CoC) is responsible for establishing and 
ensuring compliance with Written Standards for administering 
assistance as outlined by the Homeless Emergency Assistance and 
Rapid Transition to Housing (HEARTH) Act for CoC and Emergency 
Solutions Grant (ESG) funded programs. The CoC Written 
Standards, therefore, shall be aligned with standards for ESG 
funded programs within the CoC’s geographic area. The 
committee will also take on the tasks of the Coordinated Entry 
Committee as outlined in the current Nashville-Davidson County 
CoC Charter. Those tasks are to ensure that “community-wide 
Coordinated Entry policies and procedures are in place and are 
aligned with HUD requirements.” The Committee identifies 
relevant key stakeholders for input on the Written Standards 
draft before presenting it to the Planning Council for approval 
Works to create a sustainable systems approach that is capable of 
meeting and maintaining the federal criteria and benchmarks that 
effectively end veteran homelessness in Nashville. 
A group of youth and young adults who are experiencing 
homelessness or have experienced homelessness, that provides 
advice to the Nashville CoC in its efforts to effectively end 
homelessness for unaccompanied youth, particularly in the 
planning and project implementation phases for a HUD Youth 
Homelessness Demonstration Program (YHDP) grant to the city. 
Focuses on preventing and ending homelessness for 
unaccompanied youth and young adults. 
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX C – ADDITIONAL RESOURCES 
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
18 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX C – ADDITIONAL RESOURCES 
Selected Glossary of Terms 
Continuum of Care - The group organized to carry out the responsibilities required under 24 CFR part 
578 and is composed of representatives of organizations, including nonprofit homeless service 
providers, victim service providers, faith-based organizations, governments, businesses, advocates, 
public housing agencies, school districts, social service providers, mental health agencies, hospitals, 
universities, affordable housing developers, law enforcement, organizations that serve homeless and 
formerly homeless veterans, and homeless and formally homeless individuals to the extent these groups 
are represented within the geographic area and are available to participate. 
Homeless Management Information System - A local information technology system used to collect 
client-level data and data on the provision of housing and services to homeless individuals and families 
and persons at risk of homelessness. Each CoC is responsible for selecting an HMIS software solution 
that complies with HUD's data collection, management, and reporting standards. 
Joint Transitional Housing and Permanent Housing-Rapid-Re-housing - Commonly referred to as “TH-
RRH”, this combines two existing program components–transitional housing and permanent housing-
rapid rehousing–in a single project to serve individuals and families experiencing homelessness. Program 
participants chose the type of housing that best fits their needs that will result in obtaining or 
maintaining permanent housing. 
Permanent Supportive Housing - A CoC program component type providing indefinite leasing or rental 
assistance combined with supportive services for disabled persons experiencing homelessness so that 
they may live independently. 
Rapid Re-Housing - A permanent housing solution emphasizing housing search and relocation services 
and short- and medium-term rental assistance to move homeless persons and families (with or without a 
disability) as rapidly as possible into housing. Safe Haven - A type of supportive housing designed to serve 
hard-to-reach homeless persons with severe mental illness who come primarily from the streets and have 
been unable or unwilling to participate in housing or supportive services. While no longer an eligible new 
component of the CoC Program, these types of projects continue to be eligible for renewal of leasing, 
operating,  supportive  services,  rental  assistance,  HMIS  and  project  administrative  costs  under  24  CFR 
578.33(d)(1),  so  long  as  the  project  continues  to  serve  the  same  population  and  the  same  number of 
program participants or units in the same type of housing as identified in their most recently amended 
grant  agreement  signed  before  August  31,  2012.Transitional  Housing  -  Designed  to  provide  homeless 
individuals  and  families  with  the  interim  stability  and  support  to  successfully  move  to  and  maintain 
permanent housing. 
Audit of the Metropolitan Nashville Homeless Impact Division 
19 
 
 
