Mike Lacy <michael.t.lacy@gmail.com>
Fw: CoC Ranking concerns and questions for moving forward
1 message
Shanley Deignan <shanley.deignan@parkcenternashville.org>
To: Mike Lacy <michael.t.lacy@gmail.com>
Sat, Sep 19, 2026 at 2:48 PM
From: Shanley Deignan <shanley.deignan@parkcenternashville.org>
Sent: Thursday, August 6, 2026 5:46 PM
To: luis@tndp.org <luis@tndp.org>; mmcguire@joecdavisfoundation.org <mmcguire@joecdavisfoundation.
org>; Rico X <rico.x.mpp@gmail.com>; India Pungarcher - she her hers <india@opentablenashville.org>;
Drew Freeman <dfreeman@safehaven.org>; D'Yuanna <Dyuanna.Allen-Robb@nashville.gov>; Michelle N
<michelle.n.southard@vumc.org>; Andrea Hancock <ahancock@starsnashville.org>; Meredith MacLeod
<meredith@showerthepeople.net>; David Langgle-Martin <david.langgle-martin@parkcenternashville.org>;
HG Stovall <hg@nashvillelaunchpad.com>; CATHERINE M (MNPS) <Catherine.Knowles@mnps.org>;
Alyssa Fernandez <afernandez@oasiscenter.org>; damarruslmiller@gmail.com
<damarruslmiller@gmail.com>; Jaha Martin (jaha.martin@va.gov) <jaha.martin@va.gov>; Angie Lawless
<angie@wagonwheeltitle.com>; Stephanie Cooper <Stephanie.Cooper@tn.gov>; Mick Nelson
<mick@nelsoncp.com>; marka.chandler2107@gmail.com <marka.chandler2107@gmail.com>; John
(Council Member) <John.Rutherford@nashville.gov>; Erin (Council Member) <Erin.Evans@nashville.gov>;
Jacob (Council Member) <Jacob.Kupin@nashville.gov>
Subject: CoC Ranking concerns and questions for moving forward
HPC members,
My name is Shanley Deignan and I am the chair of the Continuum of Care’s Charter Committee and the
HMIS Oversight committee. I am writing from both of those perspectives to express deep concern about the
decision that was made not to fund HMIS or Coordinated Entry projects in this year’s CoC competition. A
decision of this magnitude, with signiﬁcant governance implications, deserved ample opportunity for
meaningful input and discussion from the HPC and General Membership. Because this decision was placed
before you at the absolute last minute, without community input, I do not believe the HPC had the beneﬁt of
all the information necessary to fully consider the risks and implications before the vote. 
I understand the decision has been made, and now we must move forward. Below, I have offered some
context for my primary concerns with a list of recommended next steps to mitigate possible risk or damage.  
I believe that you received inaccurate information in yesterday's meeting. This year is the year that the
General Membership should be facilitating a process to elect or re-elect for the roles of HMIS and CE
Leads. This process is critical because it gives the community the ability to evaluate performance and set
expectations. By removing these dollars, we removed the ability of the CoC to have a legitimate
conversation about who their Leads are and therefore bypassed the outlined charter process. I served on
the small working group in 2023 that created and facilitated the process to elect OHS as the new
Collaborative Applicant. During that process, our group acknowledged that we were also in year 5 for the
HMIS and CE Lead roles (which is the timeline the charter establishes for that process to take place). As a
community, we decided that possibly transitioning all three Lead roles in one year wasn’t reasonable, and so
the General Membership decided that we would circle back in 2-3 years after settling in to the transition to
select the HMIS and CE lead. Which brings us to this year.
I believe the General Membership deserves a clear explanation from the HPC of how this decision affects its
authority to designate their HMIS and CE Leads, and what process the HPC intends to use to restore that
 
authority going forward.
My second concern is the lack of clarity about a long-term ﬁnancial plan for these roles.
I have provided technical assistance to several CoCs throughout Middle Tennessee for the last 5 years and
in that time, the most extreme scenario I faced was working with a CoC that was collapsing because they
had lost their HMIS and CE dollars (they didn’t willingly give them away, but they risked them in Tier 2 and
lost them). They had to call in emergency HUD support to help salvage their CoC, they had volunteers from
their CoC board managing HMIS and CE activities for more than a year. They are still recovering from that
decision and trying to rebuild those funds years later.
We are obviously in a stronger position than they were, with Metro willing to supplement these funds for
now. But there are many factors well out of our control in this new scenario. The Metro budget could change
with new leadership, new ﬁscal priorities, the economy, etc. I don’t think we are in critical danger at this
moment, but I think we could easily be in the future if the HPC doesn’t stay committed to making a clear
long-term plan to bring these CoC dollars back into the community.
I am grateful to hear that the HPC will be leading the way in developing a contract between the Leads and
the (General Membership? HPC? Whoever is appropriate). Our charter does speak to contracts that should
exist for this purpose and yet, we have not had anything like that in place for years.
I have attached the “Collaborative Applicant Application” that was used as an RFP of sorts to select our CA.
I think similar/equivalent language could be helpful for developing those contracts, so I wanted to make sure
you have it.
 So, in wrapping this very long email (sorry), I am respectfully asking the following of the HPC:
1. Please keep this topic on your monthly agenda until there are well-documented answers to major
questions and concerns about this decision (mine are outlined in the email below, sent to the exec
committee last week).
a. This work may need to be delegated to an existing committee or performed by a new Ad Hoc
group tasked with this project. I am happy to offer my time to be part of figuring out solutions
2. Facilitate a transparent conversation with the General Membership about the impacts this decision
has on their authority to select their Leads.
3. Create a contract between each Lead role and the community.
Thank you for your consideration and commitment to this work. Ultimately, I understand that you were put in
an impossible position yesterday that left you with very little opportunity to pivot the plan from the HPC ﬂoor.
I am happy to discuss anything in this email with anyone of you. You have my email, and my cell number is
401-345-0119.
Thank you,
Shanley
From: Shanley Deignan <shanley.deignan@parkcenternashville.org>
Sent: Wednesday, July 29, 2026 1:24 PM
To: Meredith MacLeod <meredith@showerthepeople.net>; kerrydietz@gmail.com
<kerrydietz@gmail.com>
Cc: David Langgle-Martin <david.langgle-martin@parkcenternashville.org>; Stephanie Cooper
<stephanie.cooper@tn.gov>; Alyssa Fernandez <afernandez@oasiscenter.org>;
Jacob.Kupin@nashville.gov <Jacob.Kupin@nashville.gov>
Subject: HMIS and CE CoC renewal questions
I am writing to request that more discussion be had around the decision not to submit the HMIS and
Coordinated Entry renewal projects in this year's CoC competition. Given our time constraints, I suppose the
request falls to the HPC for the meeting scheduled next week. My goal in sending this is to simply highlight
a few questions that I believe need answers before this decision is formalized. I've copied the Executive
Committee and Kerry from the PEC for consideration. 
First though, I want to acknowledge the absolutely impossible position that the PEC is in this year, with the
federal government making changes that jeopardize the health and stability of people in Nashville. I
understand that this poses challenges we haven't faced before, and I respect that it comes with extremely
hard cuts and decisions. I am very grateful for the PEC's expertise and willingness to support the CoC
through this moment. 
A concern that I have is that a systematic change like this requires proactive planning and opportunity for
community input.
These dollars, although assigned to OHS as the current designated lead agency, ultimately belong to the
CoC to facilitate these activities. I think a strategic change like this should have been infused into our
planning conversations for several months to allow for input and discussion. The money associated with
these roles is our primary mechanism for accountability, but it is also the only tool we have to change who
the Lead is if needed. My understanding is that for those reasons, these two pots of money have always
been seen in the CoC as protected as core infrastructure dollars, and therefore not scored by the PEC, and
automatically ranked in Tier 1.
With that said, I know that we are in an unprecedented moment, and I support doing everything we can to
preserve housing resources. If the decision is made not to renew HMIS or CE in this year's competition, I
am simply asking that there be clear and documented answers to the following questions:
1. Is this change a one-year response to unprecedented circumstances, or is this intended to become
the CoC's permanent funding strategy? 
2. Has Metro committed, in writing, to allocating local funding for HMIS and Coordinated Entry if these
renewal grants are no longer pursued? If so, for how long?
3. How do we facilitate a legitimate Lead election process if there is no money associated with these
roles?
a. It has been 5 years since we voted on which entity holds the Lead roles. According to our
governance charter, that means that we are due for a local evaluation and election process for
the HMIS and CE Lead roles. Removing the renewal funding makes changing Leads
substantially more difficult because another organization would have to assume these HUD-
required responsibilities without a dedicated funding source. 
b. If the CoC designates a different Lead Agency in the future, will Metro make equivalent local
funding available to that organization?
4. How will the HPC hold the Lead accountable for their performance in these roles if they don't receive
CoC money? While the HPC does have authority over CoC dollars, it has been inferred or made
explicitly clear in community conversations that the HPC is not owed oversight or insight into the use
of Metro dollars. 
5. What happens if the Metro budget changes in the future? What if a new mayor is elected and doesn't
think this is a budget priority? Staking our entire system's stability in the Metro budget feels extremely
risky to me unless there is a clear longer-term plan. 
Thank you very much for your time and consideration. I'm available to talk more if anyone wants to further
discuss. My cell number is 401-345-0119
Shanley Deignan
Regional Housing Facilitator
Phone:  615-517-2896
 
Park Center empowers people who have mental illness and substance use disorders to live
and work in their communities.
This email and any ﬁles or attachments transmitted may contain information that is conﬁdential and privileged.  This information is
intended only for the person or entity to which it is addressed. If you are the intended recipient, further disclosures are prohibited
without proper authorization, If you are not the intended recipient, you are hereby notiﬁed that any disclosing, copying, distributing,
or the taking of any action relying upon the information within this email and any attachments is strictly prohibited and is an illegal
violation of the Health, Insurance, Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA).If you received this in error, please notify the sender
immediately, destroy and/or delete all copies of this email and all copies of any material accompanying it.  Thank you
CAA Final Draft.docx
31K
 
 
 
