Docusign  Envelope lD: 9BA3FC52-8578-861  B-817C-B75057934079
Grant  contract  between the Mefopolitan  Government of Nashvllle and  Davidson Gounty and
*GranteeNamer,  Contracl #-L - 1!!-
GRANT CONTRACT
BETWEEN  THE  METROPOLITAN  GOVERNMENT
OF NASHVILLE  AND  DAVIDSON COUNTY
AND
ROOM IN THE INN,  INC
This  Grant Contract  issued  and  entered  into pursuant  to RS 2025€33,  by and between  THE
METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT  OF NASHVILLE AND  DAVIDSON COUNTY  ACTING  BY AND
THROUGH METROPOLITAN OFFICE  OF HOMELESS SERVICES, a municipalcorporation  of the State
of Tennessee  (hereinafter refened  to as "OHS" or "Metro"),  and  Room  ln The  lnn  lnc, ("Agencf),  The
contract  is forthe  provision of services  as defined  in the  "SCOPE  OF  SERVICES."  The  Agency's  corporale
charter,  IRS  determination  letter,  most recent annual  report, and  audit are  attached  as exhibits and are  on
file at OHS.
WITNESSETH
WHEREAS,  OHS  is the  recipient  of local Metro  homeless  funds  for use  in projects by the OHS
(hereinafter called 'OHS  Funds") in the amount of $450,000;  and,
WHEREAS, the Agency  pravides  services to people expedencing  homelessness,  including navigation to
resources including  food  stamps,  employment,  treatment  options  and housing  (lhe  Guest  House");  and,
WHEREAS, the Guest House  also  includes a progmm that  serves  as a day center for visitors  to Room in
the lnn  ("the  Day Sheltef);  and,
WHEREAS, the Agency agrees  to utilize  OHS  Funds  to fund  general  Guest  House services to provide
shelter,  food,  clothing and other  programs for people experiencing  homelessness  including recuperative
care  forlhe  med  ically  f ragile,  stable  shelter  f orthose  taking  next  steps  in their recovery  and t hose  actively
struggling  with addiction  ("the  Guest House  Funds"); and,
WHEREAS, the Agency agrees  to utilize the  OHS Funds  to fund Day Shelter services  to people
experiencing homelessness,  including administefing a program  that serves  as a day centerfor  visitors  to
Room in the lnn ('the  Day Shelter  Funds");  and,
NOW,  THEREFORE,  in consideration  of the mutual promises as contained herein,  the Parties  hereto
have agreed and hereby  enter into this  Contract  according to the provisions  as set forth herein.
SCOPEOF PROGRAM:
A. 
A  A.1.SCOPE  OF SERVICES  FOR GENEML GUEST HOUSE  PROGMM:
The  Agency  shall:
1. Use the Guest  House Funds  to provide  a location that  will serve  as a safe stable
environment  for people  expedencing  homelessness  that  face  baniea  to traditional
shelters  and safe  spaces.  The  program shall  provide  shelter,  food, clothing  and
connection  to other programs offered by the Agency.
2.  Guest  House Funds  shall  be expended for the following  services:
a  Provide Guest House  clients  (of all genders)  with basic shelter,  food, hygiene  and
clothing  needs.
1
ARCHIVE
Docusign Envelope  lD: 9BA3FC52-8578-86'l  B-81  7C-875057934079
Grant  contract between  the MetrEqgrlitan
cGranteeNamer,  Gontract  #-L - t t't'
Government of Nashville  and Davidson County  and
b  provide opportunity  for Guest  House  clients  to recover  f rom  drug and alcohol
addiction while staying at the Guest  House and/or  connecting them  with outside
treatment  programs.
3. Hold an aveege  of fifty  (50)  perrsons  in the rcsidential  program  each  month
(approximatelY  600  f or the Year).
4. Work with the Metro  Office of Homeless  Seruices to share community data. This includes
coordinating with  OHS to provide specific aggregate  data  of individuals  accessing  Guest
House  services,  and collaborating  on the goal of having  a system established to enter  all
reasonable  and appropriate  data into the  Homeless  Management  lnformation System
(HMIS)  by the time in this contract period ends (ending  June 30,  2026)'
5. provide  an opportunity for clients  to attend  in{touse  Alcoholics  Anonymous  ("A4")
meetings  or connect  them  with  community  AA  meetings'
6. Provide refenals  to community resources'
T. provide  navigation  and  support for  health  services  including  behavioral  and  occupational
health  services.
8. Provide clients  the opportunity  to participate in seruices  offered by the Educational  Day
Center.
9. tJtilize  Guest House  Funds  only for  the  residents  of Davidson County.
10. Submit  monthly  invoices no later  than  30 days  after the close of each  month.
11. Collect  data  on the  primary  county  of residence  of the guests  served  and provide that  data
to OHS along  with the final  program and  expenditure  reports.
B. SCOPE  OF SERVICES  FOR  DAY SHELIER PROGRAM
The  Agency  shall:
1. Use the Day  Shelter  Funds  to provide  operational  support for a Day Shelter  serving
people expedencing  homelessness, Support  services  include:  day sheltel showeF,
hygiene  items, housing navigation  seruices,  access  to telephones, and  access  to
rnainstream  services  such  as SupplementalNutlition  Assistance Program (SNAP)
services and others  as they may  apply.
2. Work with the  Office  of Homeless  Services  on sharing community data. This includes
coordinating with  OHS to provide  specific aggregate  data  of individuals  accessing Day
Center  Services,  and  collaborating  on the goal of having  a system established to enter  all
reasonable  and appropdate data into the Homeless  Management  lnformation System
(HMIS)  by the time this contract period ends (ending  June 30, 2A2q'
3. Utilize  Day  Shefter Funds  only for residents of Davidson County'
4. Collect  data  on the  pdmary  county  of resldence  of the guests  served  and provide that  data
to OHS alorg  with the final  pmgftm and  expenditure  reports'
A.2.
The Recipient  must  spend  these  funds  consistent with  the  Grant  Spending  Plan,  attached  and
incorporated herein as Attachment 1. The Recipient  must  collect data  to evaluate  the
effeitiveness of their services  and must provide those rcsults  to Metro upon request.
2
ARCHIVE
Docusign Envelope lD: 9BA3FC52-8578-861  B-81  7C-875057934079
Grant contract between  the
cGranteeNamer, ConFact *
Mebopolitan  Government of Nashville and Davidson Gounty and
L.1it6
A.3.
A.4.
B.
B.1.
C. 
c.1.
The Recipient  will only utilize  these funds  for services  the Recipient  provides to documented
residents  of Davidson County.  Documentation  of residency may be established  with a recent
utility bill; vote/s  registration  card; drive/s  license or other  govemment issued-lD; cunent  record
from a schoolshowing  address;  affidavitby  landlord;  oraffidarrit  by a nonprofit  treatment,  shelter,
half-way  house,  or homeless  assistance  entity  located within  Davidson Counly. Recipient  agrees
that it will not use  Metro funding for services  to non-Davidson  County  residents.
Additionally,  the Recipient  must  collect  data  on the pdmary  county of residence  of the clients it
serves and provide that  data to Metro  upon request.
GMNT  CONTRACT TERM:
Grant  Contrac{ Term.  The  term of this Grant  will be twelve (12}  months,  commencing  on July  1,
2025 and  ending  on June 30, 2026. Metro  will have no obligation  for services rendered  by the
Recipient  that arc  not performed within this term.
PAYMENT TERiIS  AND  CONDITIONS:
Maxlmum Liabillty.  ln no event will Metro's maximum  liability  under  this Grant Contract  exceed
four  hundred  fifty thousand dollars ($450,000.00).  The  Grant Spending Plan will constitute the
maximum amount  to be provided  to the  Recipient  by Metro  for all of the  Recipient's  obligations
hereunder.  The Grant  Spending Plan line items  include, but are  not limited  to, allapplicable
taxes, fees, overhead,  and  all other  direct and indirect  costs incuned orto be incuned  by the
Recipient.
Subject to modification  and amendments  as provided  in section  D.2 of this agreement,  this
amount  will constitute the Grant  Amount  and the entire  compensation to be provided to the
Recipient  by Metro.
c.2.
Payment Methodology.  The  Recipient  will  only be compensated  for actual  costs  based upon
the Grant Spending  Plan,  not  to exceed  the maximum  liability established  in Section  C.l.
The Recipient  will only be compensated for  actual  costs based  upon  the Grant Spending Plan,
not to exceed the maximum  liability established  in Section C.l.  Recipient  may invoice  and  be
compensated  for  program  costs incuned after July 1,2025  and  before the  signature  date  of the
conlract,  pending approvalfrcm  the  OHS Finance team.
Department  will issue  reimbursable  payments  to equal  up to $630,000.  Upon prcgress  toward the
completion  of the services  as described in section  A, the  Recipient  shall submit  invoices  monthly,
within  10 business  days of the  end of each  month, and  any supporting  documentation  as
requested by OHS to demonstrate  that  the f unds  are used as requircd  by this Gontract,  prior  to
any  paymsnt for  allowable  costs.  lf Recipient  will not  submit  an invoice  for a given  month,  they
must notify Metro  in wdting  by the tenth  day of the following month.
All invoices must  include  a formal  invoice  document along with the Metro-approved coversheet, a
clear breakdown of direct costs  and  approved  indirect  costs, and  itemization  by line item that  is
aligned  with the approved  grant budget.  Each  invoice package should  include  supporting
documentation,  (such  as receipts, payroll records, subcontractor  invoices, timesheets,  etc.), a
summary  report of activities  during  the  billing period,  and  a listing of the  assigned HMIS  numbers
of allclients  served with specif ic assistance  direct personalassistance  (ie, deposits, clothing,  etc.)
dudng  this  time pedod.
Recipient must  send all invoices  with suppofting  documentation  as defined  by the Office  of
Homeless Services  to:
3
ARCHIVE
Docusign Envelope  lD: 9BA3FC52-8578-861  B-81  7C-875057934079
Grant  contract behfleen ttre lletropolitan  Govemment of Nashville and Davidson County  and
cGranteel{amer,  Gontact  *-UJ!l-
Joseph  Marsh
Assistant  Directorof  Admin.  & Finance
Office  of Homeless  Services
ioseoh.  marsh@nashville-oov
615€80-2867
c.3.
c.4.
c.5.
c.6.
c.7
c.8
D
D.1.
D.2-
D.3.
Annual  Expenditure  Report. The Recipient  must  submit a final  grant  Annual  Expenditure
Report. to be  received  by Joseph  Marsh by August  15,2029. _Said 
Iilli-ance  acceptabte  to trrtetro  ind  must  be prepared  by a Certified  Public Accounting Firm  or the
Chief  Financial  Officer  of the  Recipient  Oryanization.
report must be in form and
payment of lnvoice.  The  payment  of any  invoice  by Metro  will not prejudice  Metro s right to
oUi1rct  to the invoice or any oiher  related matter. Any payment by Metro  will neither be construed
as acceptance  of any part of the work  or service  provided  nor  as an approval of any of the  costs
included  therein.
Unallowable Costs.  The  Recipient's  invoice  may be  subiect  to reduction  for  amounts  included  in
any invoice or payment  theretotore made which  are determined  by Metro,  on the basis of audits
or monitoring conducted  in accordance  with  the terms  of this  Grant Contract,  to constitute
unallowable-costs.  Utilization  of Metro funding for  services  to non0avidson  County  residents  is
not  allowed.
Ileductions.  Metro  reserves the right to adjust any amounts  which  are  or become due  and
p"y"lt" to the Recipient  by Metro u-nder this or any Contract  by deducting  any amounts  which are
or-become due  and  payable  to Metro  by the  Recipient  under this or any Gontract.
Trarrel Compensation.  Payment to the Recipient  for tmvel, meals,_or lodging  is subject to
amounts  and  limitations sp-ecifieO  in Metro's  Travel Regulations  and  subject  to the  Grant
Spending Plan.
Elec{ronic Paym6nt. Metro  requires  as a condition  of this contract that  the  Recipient  have  on
file with  Metro a completed  and signed "ACH Form for Electronic Paymenf.  lf Recipient.has  not
previousty  submitted the form to Metro or if Recipient's  information  has changed, Recipient  will
have thirty (30)  days  to complete, sign, and  rctum  the form.  Thereafter,  all payments  to the
Recipient,  dnO'er ttiis  or any other contract  the  Recipient  has with  Metro,  must be  made
electronically.
STANDARI}  TERMS  AND  CONDITIONS:
Required  Approvals.  Metro  is not  bound by this Gnnt  Contract until it is approved  by the
appropriate  Metro representatives  as indicated  on  the signature  page  of this Grant.
Modlffcation  and Amendment. This  Grant  Contract  may  be modified  only  by a wdtten
amendment  that  has  been apprcved  in accordance  with  all Metro procedures  and by apprcpriate
legislation  of the  Metropolitan  Council'
Termination for Gause.  Metro shall  have the right to terminate  this Grant Contract  immediately
if Metro  determines  that Recipient,  its employees or principals  have engaged  in conduct or
viofateO  any federal,  state  or local laws  which  affect  the  ability  of Recipient  to effectively provide
sewices  under this Grant  clgntract.  Should  the  Recipient  fail to properly perform its obligations
under  this Grant  Contract  or if the Recipient  violates any terms of this Grant Contract,  Metro will
have  the right  to immediately  teminatethe  Grant  C.ontract  and  the Recipient  must rctum to Metro
any  and aligrant monies  forservices  or programs under the grant.not performed as of 
-the
tennination  date.  The Recipient  must also retum to Metro  any and allfunds  expended  for
4
ARCHIVE
Docusign Envelope  lD:  9BA3FC52-8578-861  B-81 7C-875057934079
Grant contract  betnreen  the Metropolltan  Government of Nashville  and  Davidson County  and
sGranteeNamep,  Gontract  #Lt!!tr-
purposes contrary  to the terms of the Grant Contract.  Such termination  will not relieve the
Recipient  of any  liability to Metro  fordamages  sustained  by virtue  of any brcach  by the  Recipient.
D.4.
Termination  - Notice.  Metro  may  terminate  the  Grant Contnact  without cause  for any reason.
Said  termination  shallnot  be  deemed  a Breach of Contract  by Metro. Metro  shall give the
Recipient  at least thirty (30) days written  notice before  effective  termination  date.
(a) The  Recipient  shall be  entitled  to receive  compensation  for satisfactory,  authorized  service
completed as of the effective  termination  date, hut  in no  event  shall Metro  be  liable to the
Recipient  for compensation  for any service  that  has not been  rendered.
(b) Upon  such  termination,  the Recipient  shall  have no right  to any  actual  general,  special,
incidental,  consequential  or any other  damages vuhatsoever  of any  description  or amount.
D.5.
Terminalion  -Funding. This Grant  Contract is subject  to the appropriation  and  availability  of
local,  State  and/or  Federal funds.  ln the event  that the funds  are  not appropriated  or are
otheruise  unavailable,  Metro  shall have the  right to terminate  this Grant Contract  immediately
upon  written  notice  to the  Recipient. Upon receipt  of the written  notice, the  Recipient  shall cease
all wo*  associated with this Grant  Contract  on  or before  the effective  termination  date specif  ied
in the  wdtten  notice, Should such an  event  occur, the  Recipient  shall be  entitled  to compensation
for all satisfactory  and authorized  services completed as of the effective  termination  date.  The
Recipient  shall  be  responsible  for  repayment  of any  funds  already  received  in excess  of
satisfactory  and  authorized  services completed  as of the effective  termination  date.
D.6.
Subcontracting.  The Recipient  may not assign  this Grant  Contract or enter into  a subcontract
for any of the  services  performed  under  this  Grant  Contract  without obtaining the pdor written
approval of Metro.  Notwithstanding  any use of approved subcontractors,  the Recipient will be
considered the  prime Recipient  and  will be responsible for all work performed,
D.7.  Conflicts  of lnterest,  The Recipient  wanants  that  no part of the total  Grant Amount  will be paid
directly or indirectly  to an employee or official of Metro as wages, compensation,  or gifts in
exchange  foracting  as an officer,  agent,  employee, subcontractor,  or consultant  to the Recipient
in connection  with  any work contemplated  or performed relative to this Grant Contract.
D.8.
Nondlscrlmination.  The Recipient  hereby agrees, wanants, and  assures that no person  willbe
excluded from pafticipation  in, be denied benefits of, or be otherwise  subjected to discdmination
in the performance  of this Grant  Contract  or in the employment practices of the  Recipient  on the
grounds of disability,  age, race, color,  religion, sex, national  origin, or any  other  classification
which  is in violation of applicable  laws.  The Recipient  must, upon request,  show  proof  of such
nondiscrimination  and must post in conspicuous  places,  available  to all employees and
applicants,  notices of nondiscrimination.
D.9.  Recorde, The  Recipient must maintain  documentation  for  all charges  to Metro  under  this Grant
Contract.  The books, records, and  documents  of the  Recipient,  insofar as they relate  to work
performed or money received  under this Grant Contract,  must be maintained  for a pefiod of three
(3) full yeals from  the date of the final payment  or until  the  Recipient  engages a licensed
independent  public accountant  to peform an audit of its activities.  The books, records,  and
documents  of the Recipient  insofar as they relate  to uork performed or money  received  under  this
Grant  Contract  are subject to audit at any  reasonable  time and  upon reasonable  notice  by Metro
or its duly appointed  representatives.  Records must  be  maintained  in accordance  with the
standards outlined in the  Non-Profit  Grants  Manual.  The financialstatements  must  be prepared
in accordance  with generally accepted  accounting principles.
D.10. Monitoring.  The Recipient's activities  conducted  and  records maintained  pursuant  to this Grant
Contract  are  subject to monitoring  and  evaluatlon  by The  Metropolitan  Office  of Financial
5
ARCHIVE
Docusign Envelope  lD: 9BA3FC52-8578-861  B-81 7C-875057934079
Grant congac{ between  the Metropolitan  Government  of Nashville and.Davidson Gounty and
rGranteeNamer,  ConEact # L1JJ!--
-Uy 
Accountabitity or Metro's duly appointed  representatives.  The  Recipient  must  make all audit,
accounting, or f inancial  recoiOs,  notes, and  other documents pertinent  to this grant  available  for
review  Oy tne  Metropolitan Office  of Financial Accountability,  lntemal Audit or Metro's
reprcsentatives,  upon request,  during  nomal rlorking  hours'
Reporting. The Recipient  must submit an lnterim  Prooram  Reoort, to be received  by Allison
tr,tay 1,2b26  and  a Final Progqm  Reoort,  to be received  by Allison Ca1tw.3y blt
Cantway 
nuJu=i'rS,'Z0ZO.  iatJieports  i6att  Oetail the o"lcote  of the  activities funded  under this Grant
coitract.  Metro  and oHs'reserve the dght to request and  review additional documentation at any
time.
Strict  Performance.  Failure  by Metro  to insist in any one  or more  cases upon  the strict
p"rto*"n""  Of any of the terms, C6venants, conditions,  or provisions  of this agreement  is not a
ilr"iu",  or relinquishmeni  of any such term,  covenant,  condition, orprovision'  No term or condition
of this Gr:ant  6ntr:act  is considered to be  waived,  modif ied, or deleted except by a witten
amendment  by the appropriate parties  as indicated  on  the signature  page  of this Grant'
lnsurance. The  Recipient  agrees  to carry adequate  public liability  and other appropdateforms  of
insurance,  and to pay all applicable taxes  incident  to this Grant contract'
Metro  Liability.  Metro  will  have  no  liability  except  as specifically  provided  in this Grant Contract'
lndependent Gontactor.-  Nothing  herein witljn any Tey be construed or intended  to create  a
fartriersnip  or joint u"niurS  U"t*"e-n tne Recipient  ana  Merro  or to create the relationship  of
Recipient  must  not- hold
principaf  and alent  between  or among  the Recipient  and  Metro. 
itself  out  in a manner  .ontr"ry  to tfte t6rms  of this paragraph.  Metro  will not become liable for any
rJpresentation, act, oiotii":ion  of any other  party  contrary  to the terms  of this paragraph'
.The 
D.11
D.12.
D.13.
D.14.
D.  15.
D. 16. lndemnification  and Hold  Harmless.
(a) Recipient  agrees  to indemnify, defend,  and hold harmless  Metro,  its officers'  agents  and
Irirptoyelstrori any cfaims,  Oamirges,  p-enalties, costs and  attomey fees for  injuries  or damages
in part or in nttob,J.r ttti negtigent  or intentional  acts  or omissions  of Recipient,  its
office,n, employees  and/or agents, incluOing its sub or independent  contractors'  in connection
"riJngl 
with the pedormance  of the iontr:act, and aiy claims, damages, penalties,  costs and  attomey
i*" 
or independent  contractors, to observe applicable laws,  including,  but not limited  to, labor laws
and  minimum  wage  laws'
(b) Metro  will not indemnify, defend or hold harmless  in any fashion  the  Recipient  from any
iiims, r"gardless of 
provide-
from any faifure of Recipient,  itsbfficers, employees and/or agents, including its sub
tingr"g"  in any attachment  or other  document that the Recipient  may
"ti"ing 
"ny 
D.17
(c) Recipient  will pay Metro  any  expenses  incuned  as a rcsult  of Recipient's  failure  to futfill any
i6tigation  in a prof eisional  and timely manner  under  this Contract'
(d) Recipient's  duties under this section  will survive  the termination  or expiration  of the grant'
Force Mafeure.  "Force Majeure  Eventn  means  fire, flood, eariiquake, elements  of nature or acts
oi Ooa, rriars,  riots, civit  OiriorOers,  rebellions  or revolutions, acts of tenorism or any other  similar
OeyonO  the ieasonable  conirolof  the  party.  Except  as provided  in this Section, any failure
or delay by a party  in the  performance  of its-obligations  under this Gmnt  Contract  arising  f rom  a
"au"" 
Force  r,l1a;6ure  euent  ii nit a breach  under this  Grant Contract.  The nonperformilg party  will be
eicuseo  from performidifroJ.;bifations  directly  affected  by the Force  Maieure Event,  and  onlv
for  as long as the  ForciMajeure  Evlnt continues,  povided that  the  party  continues  to use
6
ARCHIVE
Docusign Envelope lD: 9BA3FC52-8578-861  B-817C-875057934079
Grant  contract between  the Metropolitan  Government of Nashville  and Davidson  Gounty and
eGranteeNamer,  Contract #J2l!-9-
diligent, good  faith  efforts  to resume performance without  delay. Recipient  will promptly  notify
Metro within  fofiy+ight  (48) houts  of any  delay caused by a Force Majeure Event  and will
descdbe in reasonable  detailthe nature of the Force  Majeure Event.
D.18. State,  Local and  Federal Compliance. The  Recipient  agrees to comply  with  allapplicable
federal, state and local laws  and  regulations in the performance  of this Grant Contract.  Metro
shall  have  the dght  to terminate this Grant  Contract at any  time for failure  of Recipient  to comply
with applicable federal, state or local laws  in connection with the performance  of services under
this Grant  Contract.
D.19. Governing  Law  and Venue. The validity,  construction  and effect of this Grant  Contract  and any
and  all extensions and/or  modifications  thereof will be govemed by and  construed  in accordance
with the laws of the State of Tennessee.  The  venue for  legal action conceming this Grant
Contract  will be in the courts  of Davidson  County, Tennessee.
D.20. Completeness. This Grant Contract  is complete  and  contains  the  entire understanding between
the parties relating  to the subject matter  contained  herein,  including  all the terms and  conditions
of the  parties'agreement. This  Grant  Contract supersedes  any and allprior understandings,
representations,  negotiations,  and agreements  between  the parties  relating  hereto,  whether
written or oral.
D.21 .  Headlngs. Section headings  are for ref erence  purposes only and will not be construed as part  of
this Grant  Contract.
D.22. Metro  lnterest  in Equipment.  The  Recipient will take legaltitle  to all equipment and to all motor
vehicles,  hereinafter  refened to as "equipment,n  purchased  totally or in part with  funds  provided
under  this Grant  Contract,  subject to Metro's  equitable interest  therein,  to the extent of its prc rata
share, based upon Metro's  contribution to the purchase  price,  "Equipment"  is defined as an
article  of nonexpendable,  tangible, personal property  having  a useful life of more  than  one year
and  an acquisition  cost which equals  or exceeds $5,000.00.
The  Recipient  agrees  to be  responsible  for  the  accountability,  maintenance,  management,  and
inventory of all property purchased totally or in part  with  funds provided under this Grant Contract.
Upon termination  of the Grant Contract,  where  a further  contractual  relationship is not entered
into, or at any tlme during  the term of the Grant  Contract,  the Recipient  must request  written
approvalfrom  Metro  for any proposed  disposition of equipment  purchased  with Grant  funds.  All
equipment must be disposed  of in such a manner as parties  may agree as appropriate and in
accordance with  any  applicable  federal,  state or local laws or regulations.
D.23. Assignment--€onsent  Required.  The  provisions  of this  contract will inure  to the benefit  of and
will be binding  upon the respective  successors  and  assignees  of the parties hereto.  Except  for
the rights of money  due to Recipient  under  this contract,  neither  this contract  nor any of the  rights
and  obligations  of Recipient  hereunder may be assigned or tnansfened  in whole  or in part without
the pdor  written consent  of Metro. Any such assignment  or transfer will not rclease  Recipient
from  its obligations hereunder. Notice  of assignment  of any  dghts to money due to Recipient
under  this Contract must  be sent to the attention of the  Metro  Department  of Finance.
D.24. Gratuities  and Kickbacks.  lt will be a breach of ethical  standards  forany per€on 
to offer,  give or
agree to give any employee  or former  employee,  or for any employee  or former  employee  to
solicit, demand, accept or agree  to accept from another  person,  a gratuity or an offer of
employment  in connection with any decision,  approval, disapproval,  recommendation,
preparations of any part of a prognm  requirement  or a purchase  request,  influencing  the content
of any specification  orprocurement standard,  rendering  of advice,  investigation,  auditing  or in any
other advisory  capacity  in any  proceeding or application,  rcquest  for ruling, determination,  claim
or controversy  in any proceeding or application,  request  for  ruling,  determinalion, claim or
7
ARCHIVE
Docusign Envelope  lD: 9BA3FC52-8578-861  B-817C-875057934079
Grant  contract between  the
rGranteeNamer,  Contract # L.
ile
Govemment of Nashville  and Davldson County  and
controversy or other  particular  matter,  pertaining  t9 any  Prog.Tm 
subcontrait  or to any solicitation or proposat  therefore.  lt will be a breach of ethical  standards for
any  payment,  gratuiiy  or offerof employmentto  be  made by oron behalf  of a subcontractor  under
a doi*Lct  to tfie prime  contractor  oi higher tier subcontractor  or a persion  associated  therewith'
as an  inducemeni  for the  award of a subcontract or order. Breach of the provisions  of this
paragraph  is, in addition  to a breach of this contract, a breach  of ethicalstandards  which  may
iesuli  incivlt or criminal  sanction  and/or  debarment  or suspension from participation  in
Metropolitan  Govemment  co ntracts.
reQuirement  of a contnact or
D.25.
Gommunlcatlons  and Gontacts.  All instructions, notices, consents, demands,  or other
communications  from  the  Recipient  required  or contemplated  by this Grant Contract must  be in
writing  and  must  be made  by facsimile transmission, or by first class mail, addressed to the
r".pi6u" party  at the  appdpriate facsimile  number or address as set fotth below  or to such
othLr  party,  tacslmite numbei, or address as may  be  hereafter  specified  by written  notice.
For inquiries  regarding  invoices:
Joseph  Marsh
Assistant  Director  of Administration  and
Finance
ioseoh.  marsh@nashville.  oov
Metro/OHS
For contract+elated mafters:
Allison CantwaY
Asst.  Director  of Research & Planning
alliso n.cantwav(Onashville.oov
61$88&2350
Recipient
Rachel  Hester,  Executive  Director
Room  ln The lnn Inc
705  DrexelSt.
Nashville,  TN  37203
61$251-9791
D.26.
Lobbying.  The Recipient  certifies, to the  best of its knowledge  and  belief, that:
a. 
b= 
c. 
No federally appropriated  funds have been paid orwillbe paid, by oron behalf of the
Recipient,  to any person  f or influencing  or attempting  to.influence  an officer or employee
of any agency,  a'Member  of Congress in connection with the  awarding  of any federal
contract,  the  making  of any federll grant,  the  making  of any federal loan,  and  entering
into of any cooperative agreement,  and  the extensiOn,  continuation,  renewal,
amendment,  or'modification  of any federal contract, grant,  loan,  or coopemtive
agreement.
tf any funds other  than  federally appropriated funds have  been paid or will be paid to any
persbn for  influencing  or attempting to influence  an officer or employee  of any  ag-ency,  a
ember  of Congresi, an officer oiemployee  of Congress,  or an employee of a Member
'tt 
of Congress  in ionnection with this grant,  loan, or cooperative agreement,  the Recipient
must  c6mpbte and  submit Standard Form-LLL,  "Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,"  in
accordance  with  its instructions'
The Recipient  will require  that  the  language  of this certification  be included in the award
documenis for a[ suL-awards  at all ti6rs (ncluding  sub{rants,  subcontracts,  and
contracts  under  lrants,  loans,  and  coopeiative  agreements)  and that  all subcontractots of
federally appropriated funds  shall  certify  and  disclose  accodingly.
O.27.  Gertificaton  Regarding  Debarment  and  Gonvictions.
I
ARCHIVE
Docusign  Envelope lD: 9BA3FC52-8578-861  &817C-875057934079
Grant  contrac,t  between the Metropolitan  Government of Nashville and Davidson  County  and
cGranteeName>,  Contract #-,!jjll!-
a. 
Recipient  certifies  that Recipient,  and its cunent and future principals:
i,  are not presently  debaned , suspended,  or proposed f or debarment  f rom participation
in any fedenl  or state  grant  program:
lt.
It.
tv
have not within  a three  (3) year period preceding this  Grant Contract  been convicted
of fraud,  or a cdminal offence in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or
perfonning  a public (federal,  state, or local) grant;
have  not within  a three  (3) year period  prcceding this Grant Conttact been convicted
of embezlement,  obstruction of justice,  theft,  forgery,  bdbery,  falsification  or
destruction of records,  making  false  statements,  or receiving  stolen property;  and
are  not presently indicted  or otherwise  cdminally  charged  by a govemment entity
(federal,  state,  or local) with commission  of any of the offenses  detailed in sections
D.2staXii)  and D.25(aXiii)  of this certificatiorl.
b. 
Recipient  shall provide  immediate  written  notice to Metro  if at any time Recipient  leams
that there  was an earlier  failure  to disclose  information or that due to changed
circumstances, its principals  fall under any of the prohibitions of Section D.25(a).
D.28
Severability. Should any provision  of this  Grant Contract  be declared  to be invalid  by a court  of
competent  jurisdiction,  or othenrvise  rendered  invalid or unenf  orceable,  such  provision shall be
severed  and shall  not affect the validity of the remaining  provisions of this Grant  Contract.
D.29. Effective Dab.  This  contract will not  be binding  upon  the parties  untilit  has been signed first by
the Recipient  and then by the  authodzed  reprcsentatives of the  Metropolitan Govemment  and
has been  filed in the  office  of the  Metropolitan  Clerk.  \iVhen it has been so signed and filed, this
contract will be effective as of the date first written  above.
(THE REMATNDER OF ftlls PAGE  LEFT INTENTIONALLY  BLANK.)
9
ARCHIVE
Docusign Envelope  lD:  9BA3FC52-8578-861  &81 7C-875057934079
Grant  contract  between  the Metropolitan  Government of Naghville  and Davidson Coun$ and
cGranteeName>,  Contract # t'-1I6- 
:
Room ln The lnn lnc
Rachel  Hester, Executive  Director
THE  METROPOLITAN  GOVERNMENT
OF NASHVILLE  AND DAVIDSON
COUNTY:
by:
irectorof
Services
APPROVED  AS TO AVAILABLTTY  OF
lh u*
nance
-1-Q
APPROVED  AS TO FORM  AND
LEGAL]TY
by:
6NlL
^^"llltu^t 
mey
FILED  IN T}IE  OFFICE  OF ftIE
CLERK:
/d* L,L
Metropolitan  Clerk
L2249 pil,  Mar 19 2026
FILED  UETROPOLTTAN  CLERR
10
.*
ARCHIVE
Docusign Envelope lD: 9BA3FC52-8578-861  B-81 7C-875057934079
Grant conbact between  the
sGranteeNamer, Gontract
MetropgLitan  Government of Nashville and Davidson County and
L-7ttC
METROPOLITAN  GOVERNMENT  OF
NASHVILLE  AND DAVIDSON  COUNTY
GRANT SPENDING  PLAN
RECIPIENT
l,lAME:
Room In The Inn
THE  FOLLOYI'ING  IS APPLICABLE  TO EXPENSES  PLANNED TO BE  INGURRED  DURING THE
CONTRACT  GRANT PERIOD: 711125  - 680/26
EXPENSE  OEJ  ECT  LINE.ITEM
CATEGORY
METR,g  C'I(ANT
FUNDS
RECIPIENT
MATCH
(participatbn)
TOTAL  PROJECT
Salaries and Wages
Benefib and Taxes  I(PERCENT)I
Protessaonal  Fees
Supplies
Communications
Postage  and  shapping
Occupancy
Equipment  Rental  and  Maintenance
Printing and  Publlciltions
Travel/  Conferences  and  Meelings
lnsurance
Specif ic Assistanoe to lndividuals
Oher Non-Personnel
$350,000.00
$37,000.00
$54,000.00
$350,000.00
$37,000.00
$0.00
$54,000.00
$0.00
$0.00
$9,000.00
$9,000.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
$0.00
GRAiID TOTAL
$450,000.00
$0.00
$450,000.00
\t
ARCHIVE
Docusign Envelope  lD: 9BA3FC52-8578-861  B-817C-875057934079
ARCHIVE
