DocuSign Envelope ID: DB10F728-2814-4893-8888-450FBB88A06D 
GRANT CONTRACT 
BETWEEN THE METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT 
OF  NASHVILLE AND DAVIDSON COUNTY 
AND 
NEEDLINK NASHVILLE INC. 
L-4612 
This Grant Contract by and between the Metropolitan Government of Nashville and Davidson County 
("Metro"), and Need Link Nashville Inc., ("Recipient"), is to support nonprofit agencies adversely affected 
by the Covid pandemic.  The goal is to reimburse nonprofit agencies for unreimbursed COVID-related 
expenses used to support agencies in providing financial, case management, counseling, or other 
services to help individuals, families, and households In Davidson County to achieve economic and social 
stability, as further defined in the "SCOPE OF PROGRAM".  The Recipient's annual report  is incorporated 
herein by reference. 
A. 
SCOPE  OF PROGRAM from Recipient's Application: 
A.1. 
Since the first of March, Need Link Nashville has been able to assist approximately 4200 
applicants, representing many additional family members with an urgent financial need. Recent 
clients received assistance to combat the economic hardships caused by COVID-19.  Needlink 
staff members have served an overwhelming number of clients who have lost jobs, had hours 
cut at their occupation or have had to stay home from work to care for children who were 
unable to be cared for by a babysitter or playschool.  As clients have lost income, they have 
been unable to pay their rent, utilities, bills and have not been able to afford groceries and 
transportation. We have addressed the increased need with funding to pay rent and utilities. 
Staff members worked diligently to create an online application expanding our service model to 
provide Need Link a manner of collecting an application and all forms of identification, utility bil l 
copies, rent notice documentation and other forms of evidence of the loss for our emergency 
financial assistance managers to provide counsel and  assist with past due bills.  During this time, 
to address the growing number of clients, we added six staff members-3 data entry 
professionals, 2 emergency financial assistance managers and 1 client services office manager. 
Routinely now we accept and process 300 applications per week. 
Additionally, preventing our employees from contracting the disease, we have increased office 
and equipment sanitizing and provide all office staff with personal protective masks and gloves. 
Additionally, we purchased technology (laptops and phones) to permit our staff members to 
work remotely with the equipment to ensure that our services and personal client consultation 
could continue. 
A.2 . 
The Recipient must spend these funds consistent with the Grant Spending Plan, attached and 
incorporated herein.  The Recipient must collect data to evaluate the effectiveness of services 
and must provide those results to Metro upon request. 
Prior to the adoption of a resolution appropriating funds to a nonprofit organization or the 
expenditure of funds authorized in the operating budget ordinance as an appropriation to a 
nonprofit organization, such  nonprofit organization shall submit to the metropolitan 
government the following information: 
1.  A copy of its corporate charter or other articles, constitution, bylaws, or instruments of 
organization; 
1 
ARCHIVE
DocuSign Envelope ID: DB10F728-2814-4893-8888-450FBB88A06D 
2.  A copy of a letter from the Internal Revenue Service evidencing the fact that the 
organization is a nonprofit, tax-exempt organization under the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986, as amended; 
3.  A statement of the nature and extent of the organization's program that serves the 
residents of the metropolitan government; 
4.  The proposed use of the funds to be provided by the metropolitan government [A.1 Scope 
of Service]; 
5.  The proposed budget of the organization, indicating all sources of funds and a line-item 
identification of the proposed expenditure of metropolitan government funds; 
6.  For organizations with an annual operating budget in excess of fifty thousand dollars 
receiving a grant or grants in excess of five thousand dollars during any one fiscal year, a 
copy of the organization's audit for the most recent fiscal year. For purposes of this 
subsection, "audit" means a formal examination of the organization's accounting records 
and financial situation in accordance with the generally accepted auditing standards issued 
by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Organizations that are exempt 
from submitting an  audit from the most recent fiscal year pursuant to this subsection sha ll 
comply with the audit requirements of Tennessee Code Annotated Section 7-3-314. 
A.3. 
The  Recipient will only utilize these funds for Covid Pandemic-related services the Recipient 
provides to documented residents of Davidson County.  Documentation of residency may be 
established with a recent utility bill; voter's registration card; driver's license or other 
government issued-ID; current record from a school showing address; affidavit by landlord; or 
affidavit by a nonprofit treatment, shelter, half-way house, or homeless assistance entity 
located within Davidson County.  Recipient agrees that it will not use Metro funding for services 
to non-Davidson County residents. 
A.4. 
The  Recipient must collect data on the primary county of residence of the clients it serves and 
provide that data to Metro upon request. 
B. 
GRANT CONTRACT TERM: 
B.1. 
Grant Contract Term.  The term of this Grant will be ten (10) months, commencing on March 1, 
2020 and ending on December 30, 2020.  Metro will have no obligation for services rendered by 
the Recipient that are not performed within this term. 
C. 
PAYMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS: 
C.1. 
Maximum Liability.  In no event will Metro's maximum liability under this Grant Contract 
exceed  $45,500.  The Grant Spending Plan will constitute the maximum amount to be provided 
to the Recipient by Metro for all ofthe Recipient's obligations hereunder.  The Grant Spending 
Plan line items include, but are not limited to, all applicable taxes, fees,  overhead, and all other 
direct and indirect costs incurred or to be incurred by the Recipient. 
Subject to modification and amendments as  provided in section D.2 of this agreement, this 
amount will constitute the Grant Amount and the entire compensation to be provided to the 
Recipient by Metro. 
C.2. 
Payment Methodology.  The Recipient will only be  compensated for actual costs based upon 
the Grant Spending Plan,  not to exceed the maximum liability established in Section C.1. 
All funds must be used for COV/D-related expenses associated with services for those impacted 
by the Covid Pandemic that have not been previously reimbursed.  Funds  must be expended in 
2 
ARCHIVE
DocuSign Envelope ID: DB10F728-2814-4893-8888-450FBB88A06D 
the time period March 1-December 30, 2020.  The retroactive date March 1, 2020 provides an 
opportunity for a nonprofit to receive funding for expenses that went unfunded as the pandemic 
hit and needs increased.  Expenses already reimbursed through the FY19-20 CPF grant. other 
Metro grants or contracts, or other COVID-specific funding  are NOT eligible under this CPF grant. 
Recipient must send an invoice for expenses incurred from March 1. 2020 through June 30, 
2020 by close of business October 31, 2020, or within 15 days of filing with the Office of the 
Metropolitan Clerk if that filing is later than October 31, 2020. 
An invoice for additional expenses incurred July 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020 is due by 
close of business January 15, 2021. 
Email invoices to Lee Stewart, CPF Coordinator, Metro Social Services, PO Box 196300, 
Nashville TN 37219-6300. 
Annual Expenditure Report.  The Recipient must submit a final grant Annual Expenditure 
Report to be received by Metro Social Services by close of business January 15, 2020 at the 
address in C.2. above.  Said report must be in form and substance acceptable to Metro and must 
be prepared by a Certified Public Accounting Firm or the Chief Financial Officer of the Recipient 
Organization. 
Payment of Invoice.  The payment of any invoice by Metro will not prejudice Metro's right to 
object to the invoice or any other related matter.  Any payment by Metro will neither be 
construed as acceptance of any part of the work or service provided nor as an approval of any of 
the costs included therein. 
Unallowable Costs.  The Recipient's invoice may be subject to reduction for amounts included in 
any invoice or payment theretofore made which are determined by Metro, on the basis of 
audits or monitoring conducted in accordance with the terms of this Grant Contract, to 
constitute unallowable costs.  Utilization of Metro funding for services to non-Davidson County 
residents is not allowed. 
Deductions.  Metro reserves the right to adjust any amounts which are or become due and 
payable to the Recipient by Metro under this or any Contract by deducting any amounts which 
are or become due and  payable to Metro by the Recipient under this or any Contract. 
Travel Compensation. Payment to the Recipient for travel, meals, or lodging is subject to 
amounts and  limitations specified in Metro's Travel Regulations and subject to the Grant 
Spending Plan. 
Electronic Payment.  Metro requires as a condition of this contract that the Recipient have on 
file with Metro a completed and signed "ACH  Form for Electronic Payment".  If Recipient has not 
previously submitted the form to Metro or if Recipient's information has changed,  Recipient will 
have thirty (30) days to complete, sign, and return the form.  Thereafter, all payments to the 
Recipient, under this or any other contract the Recipient has with Metro, must be made 
electronically. 
C.3. 
C.4. 
C.5. 
C.6. 
C.7. 
C.8. 
D. 
STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS: 
3 
ARCHIVE
DocuSign Envelope ID: DB10F728-2814-4893-8888-450FBB88A06D 
D.1. 
Required Approvals.  Metro is not bound by this Grant Contract until it is approved by the 
appropriate Metro representatives as indicated on the signature page of this Grant. 
D.2.  Modification and Amendment.  This Grant Contract may be modified only by a written 
amendment that has been approved in accordance with all Met ro  procedures and by 
appropriate legislation of the Metropolitan Council. 
D.3. 
D.4. 
D.S. 
D.6. 
D.7. 
Termination for Cause.  Should the Recipient fail to properly perform its obligations under this 
Grant Contract or if the Recipient violates any terms of this Grant Contract, Metro will have the 
right to immediately terminate the Grant Contract and the Recipient must return to Metro any 
and all grant monies for services or programs under the grant not performed as of the 
termination date.  The  Recipient must also  return to Metro any and all funds expended for 
purposes contrary to the terms of the Grant.  Such termination will not relieve the Recipient of 
any liability to Metro for damages sustained by virtue of any breach by the Recipient. 
Subcontracting.  The Recipient may not assign this Grant Contract or enter into a subcontract 
for any of the services performed under this Grant Contract without obtaining the prior written 
approval of Metro.  Notwithstanding any use of approved subcontractors, the Recipient will be 
considered the prime Recipient and  will be responsible for all work performed. 
Conflicts of Interest.  The Recipient warrants that no part of the total Grant Amount will be paid 
directly or indirectly to an employee or official of Metro as wages, compensation, or gifts in 
exchange for acting as an officer, agent, employee, subcontractor, or consultant to the Recipient 
in connection with any work contemplated or performed relative to this Grant Contract. 
Nondiscrimination.  The Recipient hereby agrees, warrants, and assures that no person will be 
excluded from  participation in, be denied benefits of, or be otherwise subjected to 
discrimination in the performance of this Grant Contract or in the employment practices of the 
Recipient on the grounds of disability, age,  race,  color, religion, sex, national origin, or any other 
classification which is in violation of applicable laws.  The Recipient must, upon request, show 
proof of such nondiscrimination and must post in conspicuous places, available to all employees 
and applicants, notices of nondiscrimination. 
Records.  The Recipient must maintain documentation for all charges to Metro under this Grant 
Contract. The  books, records, and documents of the Recipient, insofar as they relate to work 
performed or money received under this Grant Contract, must be maintained for a period of 
three (3) full years from the date of the final payment or until the Recipient engages a licensed 
independent public accountant to perform an  audit of its activities.  The books, records, and 
documents ofthe Recipient insofar as they relate to work performed or money received under 
this Grant Contract are subject to audit at any reasonable time and upon reasonable notice by 
Metro or its duly appointed representatives.  Records must be maintained in accordance with 
the standards outlined in the Metro Grants Manual.  The financial statements must be prepared 
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 
D.8.  Monitoring.  The Recipient's activities conducted and records maintained pursuant to this Grant 
Contract are subject to monitoring and evaluation by The Metropolitan Office of Financial 
Accountability or Metro's duly appointed representatives.  The Recipient must make all audit, 
accounting, or financial records, notes, and other documents pertinent to this grant available for 
review by the Metropolitan Office of Financial Accountability, Internal Audit or Metro's 
representatives, upon request, during normal working hours. 
4 
ARCHIVE
DocuSign Envelope ID: DB10F728-2814-4893-8888-450FBB88A06D 
D.9. 
Final Program Report.  The Recipient must submit a Final Program Report. to be received by 
Metro Social Services, within 30 [thirty] days of the end of the Grant Contract.  Said report must 
detail the activities funded under this Grant Contract. 
D.10.  Strict Performance.  Failure by Metro to insist in any one or more cases upon the strict 
performance of any of the terms, covenants, conditions, or provisions of this agreement is not a 
waiver or relinquishment of any such term, covenant, condition, or provision. No term or 
condition of this Grant Contract is considered to be waived, modified, or deleted except by a 
written amendment by the appropriate parties as indicated on the signature page of this Grant. 
D.11. 
Insurance.  The Recipient agrees to carry adequate public liability and other appropriate forms 
of insurance, and to pay all applicable taxes incident to this Grant Contract. 
D.12.  Metro Liability.  Metro will have no liability except as specifically provided in this Grant 
Contract. 
D.  13. 
Independent Contractor.  Nothing herein will in any way be construed or intended to create a 
partnership or joint venture between the Recipient and Metro or to create the relationship of 
principal and agent between or among the Recipient and Metro.  The Recipient must not hold 
itself out in a manner contrary to the terms of this paragraph.  Metro will not become liable for 
any representation, act, or omission of any other party contrary to the terms of this paragraph. 
D.  14. 
Indemnification and Hold Harmless. 
(a)  Recipient agrees to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Metro, its officers, agents and 
employees from any claims, damages, penalties, costs and attorney fees for injuries or damages 
arising,  in  part or in whole, from the negligent or intentional acts or omissions of Recipient, its 
officers, employees and/or agents, including its sub or independent contractors, in connection 
with the performance of the contract, and any claims, damages, penalties, costs and attorney 
fees arising from any failure of Recipient, its officers, employees and/or agents, including its sub 
or independent contractors, to observe applicable laws, including, but not limited to, labor laws 
and minimum wage laws. 
(b)  Metro will not indemnify, defend or hold harmless in any fashion the Recipient from any 
claims, regardless of any language in any attachment or other document that the Recipient may 
provide. 
(c)  Recipient will pay Metro any expenses incurred as a result of Recipient's failure to fulfill any 
obligation in a professional and timely manner under this Contract. 
(d)  Recipient's duties under this section will survive the termination or expiration of the grant. 
D.15.  Force Majeure.  The obligations of the parties to this Grant Contract are subject to prevention 
by causes beyond the parties' control that could not be avoided by the exercise of due care 
including, but not limited to, acts of God, riots, wars, strikes, epidemics or any other simi lar 
cause. 
D.16.  State, Local and Federal Compliance.  The Recipient agrees to comply with all applicable 
federal, state and local laws and regulations in the performance of this Grant Contract. 
D.17.  Governing Law and Venue.  The validity, construction, and effect of this Grant Contract and any 
and all extensions and/or modifications thereof will be governed by and construed in 
5 
ARCHIVE
DocuSign Envelope ID: DB10F728-2814-4893-8888-450FBB88A06D 
accordance with the laws of the State of Tennessee.  The venue for lega I action concerning this 
Grant Contract will be in the courts of Davidson County, Tennessee. 
D.18.  Completeness.  This Grant Contract is complete and contains the entire understanding between 
the parties relating to the subject matter contained herein, including all the terms and 
conditions of the parties' agreement.  This Grant Contract supersedes any and all prior 
understandings, representations, negotiations, and agreements between the parties relating 
hereto, whether written or oral. 
D.19.  Headings.  Section headings are for reference purposes only and will not be construed  as part of 
this Grant Contract. 
D.20.  Metro Interest in Equipment.  The Recipient will take legal title to all equipment and to all 
motor vehicles, hereinafter referred to as "equipment,"  purchased totally or in part with funds 
provided under this Grant Contract, subject to Metro's equitable interest therein, to the extent 
of its pro rata share, based upon Metro's contribution to the purchase price.  "Equipment" is 
defined as an article of nonexpendable, tangible, personal property having a useful life of more 
than one year and an acquisition cost which equals or exceeds $5,000.00.  The Recipient agrees 
to be responsible for the accountability, maintenance, management, and inventory of all 
property purchased totally or in part with funds provided under this Grant Contract.  Upon 
termination of the Grant Contract, where a further contractual relationship is not entered into, 
or at any time during the term of the Grant Contract, the Recipient must request written 
approval from Metro for any proposed disposition of equipment purchased with Grant funds. 
All equipment must be disposed of in such a manner as parties may agree as appropriate and in 
accordance with any applicable federal, state or local laws or regulations. 
D. 21.  Assignment-Consent Required.  The provisions of this contract will inure to the benefit of and 
will be binding upon the respective successors and assignees of the parties hereto.  Except for 
the rights of money due to Recipient under this contract, neither this contract nor any of the 
rights and obligations of Recipient hereunder may be assigned or transferred in whole or in part 
without the prior written consent of Metro.  Any such assignment or transfer will not release 
Recipient from its obligations hereunder.  Notice of assignment of any rights to money due to 
Recipient under this Contract must be sent to the attention of the Metro Department of 
Finance. 
D.22.  Gratuities and Kickbacks.  It will be a breach of ethical standards for any person to offer, give or 
agree to give any employee or former employee, or for any employee or former employee to 
solicit, demand, accept or agree to accept from another person, a gratuity or an offer of 
employment in connection with any decision, approval, disapproval, recommendation, 
preparations of any part of a program requirement or a purchase request, influencing the 
content of any specification or procurement standard, rendering of advice, investigation, 
auditing or in any other advisory capacity in any proceeding or application, request for ruling, 
determination, claim or controversy in any proceeding or application, request for ruling, 
determination, claim or controversy or other particular matter, pertaining to any program 
requirement of a contract or subcontract or to any solicitation or proposal therefore.  It will be a 
breach of ethical standards for any payment, gratuity or offer of employment to be made by or 
on behalf of a subcontractor under a contract to the prime contractor or higher tier 
subcontractor or a person associated therewith, as an inducement for the award of a 
subcontract or order.  Breach of the provisions of this paragraph is, in addition to a breach of 
6 
ARCHIVE
DocuSign Envelope ID: DB10F728-2814-4893-8888-450FBB88A06D 
this contract, a breach of ethical standards which may result in civil or criminal sanction and/or 
debarment or suspension from participation in Metropolitan Government contracts. 
D.23.  Communications and Contacts.  All instructions, notices, consents, demands, or other 
communications from the Recipient required or contemplated by this Grant Contract must be in 
writing and  must be made by facsimile transmission, or by first class mail, addressed to the 
respective party at the appropriate facsimile number or address as set forth below or to such 
other party, facsimile number, or address as may be hereafter specified by written notice. 
Metro, for contract-related matters and enquiries regarding invoices: 
Lee Stewart, CPF Coordinator 
Metro Social Services 
Community Partnership Fund Coordinator 
PO  Box 196300, Nashville TN  37219-6300 
Phone 615-862-6975 or 615-862-6400; Fax 615-862-6973 
Recipient: 
Lee Anne Wills 
Needlink Nashville 
P .0. Box 91107 
Nashville, TN  37209 
D.24.  Lobbying.  The Recipient certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that: 
a. 
b. 
c. 
No federally appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the 
Recipient, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or 
employee of any agency, a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any 
federal contract, the making of any federal grant, the making of any federal loan, and 
entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, 
amendment, or modification of any federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative 
agreement. 
If any funds other than federally appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to 
any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any 
agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a 
Member of Congress in connection with this grant, loan, or cooperative agreement, the 
Recipient must complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, "Disclosure Form to Report 
Lobbying," in accordance with its instructions. 
The Recipient will require that the language of this certification be included in the award 
documents for all sub-awards at all tiers (including sub-grants, subcontracts, and 
contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subcontractors 
of federally appropriated funds shall certify and disclose accordingly. 
D.25.  Effective Date.  This contract will not be binding upon the parties until it has been signed first by 
the Recipient and then by the authorized representatives of the Metropolitan Government and 
has been filed in the office of the Metropolitan Clerk.  When it has been so signed and filed, this 
contract will be effective as of the date first written above. 
(THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE  LEFT INTENTIONALLY BLANK.) 
7 
ARCHIVE
DocuSign Envelope ID: DB10F728-2814-4893-8888-450FBB88A06D 
RECIPIENT AGENCY: Need Link Nashville 
THE METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT OF 
NASHVIUE AND DAVIDSON COUNTY: 
APPROVED AS TO AVAILABILITY OF 
FUNDS: 
ff 
Director of Finance 
APPROVED AS TO FORM  AND  LEGALITY 
Metropolitan Attorney 
i.--------------
FILED IN THE OFFICE OF THE CLERK: 
Metropolitan Clerk 
Sworn to and subscribed to before me a Notary 
Public, this  3  0 
day 
ot ___..;::6;.__e.~ -kM--'---=-=b,__~-,,----_, 2020 
Notary Public: .... &___.,_,t,O_~_c/f-_ 6_ ~.,_ ___ _ 
My Commission expires:  Y'Yl~Y  ~ ~O~ 3 
METRO SOCIAL SERVICES: 
By: _  &U<l✓ G11A!tZ 
Title: 7¼,;; 1,.,laul ~ 
►  Attach COVID CPF  Grant Spending Plan  < 
ARCHIVE
DocuSign Envelope ID: DB10F728-2814-4B93-B888-450FBB88A06O 
METROPOLITAN SOCIAL SERVICES OF NASHVILLE AND DAVIDSON COUNTY 
COVID COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIP FUND (CPF) 
PROGRAM SPENDING PLAN 
AGENCY: 
The Program Spending Plan should realisUcally estimate how much money is needed from Metro Government 
for this program.  This application should be for funds which are absolutely essential for the program, not to 
exceed $50,000  per project.  The Program Spending Plan will be reviewed for cost effectiveness and for the 
direct relationship between planned expenditures and client outcomes. 
Column 2 should include only non-Metro funds which are used for thjs specific program.  NOT the entire agency 
budget.  For each line item, amounts should be rounded off to the nearest $100. 
THE FOLLOWING 18 APPLICABLE TO EXPENSES PLANNED TO BE INCURRED DURING THE GRANT PERIOD: 
0~/01/20 throuah 12131/20 
EXPENSE OBJECT LINE-ITEM CATEGORY 
Column1 
Column2 
Column 3 
REQUESTED  OTHER METRO/NON- TOTAL PROGRAM 
CEPGRANT  METRO FUNDS used 
FUNDS 
Salaries end Wages 
Benefits and Taxes 
Professional Fees 
Supplies 
Communications 
Postage and Shipping 
Occupancy 
Equipment Rental and Maintenance 
Printing and Publications 
Travel/ Conferences and Meetings 
Insurance 
Specific Assistance to Individuals 
Other Non-Personnel 
Total Program Cost 
'Ai of Program Budget 
FUNDS 
$29,500.00 
$2,400.00 
$4,200.00 
$5,,200.00 
$1,000.00 
$1,200.00 
$2,000.00 
$0.00 
$0.00 
$0.00 
$0.00 
$0.00 
$0.00 
$45,500.00 
6% 
for this oroaram 
$697 .000.00 
94% 
$742,500.00 
100% 
RESOURCE/REVENUE INFORMATION - Provide infc;,nnation on all sources of funding associated 
w  h thl 
a program's budget only: 
It 
Resource/Revenue - this program 
Metro Request (Budget Total Col.  1) 
Dollar Value 
$45,500.00 
Other Revenues Sources for this proaram (e.r:1. UW  foundations, donations ... etc.): 
Famllv Foundations and Foundations 
Corporations 
UnltedWav 
EFSP 
$40,000.00 
$387,000.00 
$225,000.00 
$45,000.00 
% of Program 
Budoet 
6.1% 
5.4% 
52.1% 
30.3% 
6.1% 
Total, must eaual total in Program Budget Column 3 above 
$742,500.00 
100%1 
ARCHIVE
DocuSign Envelope ID: DB10F728-2814-4893-8888-450FBB88A06D 
2020 COVID COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIP FUND (CPF) 
SPENDING PLAN NARRATIVE 
Needlink Nashville's Spending Plan itemization is  based upon expenses 
incurred from March 2nd through August 24th ,  prior to the receipt of Metro 
Cares funding for reimbursement. No part of this budget was duplicated in 
Metro Cares budgeting not United Way funding. 
Our request includes expenses to: 
•  Prepare our offices for staff and clients at the onset of COVID-19 with a safe and 
clean environment w ith increased cleaning expenses (named under 
professional fees), ensuring staff could work remotely and in the office on the 
days when remote work could not be possible due to the tasks at hand. This 
included a  percentage of occupancy expenses. 
•  Virtually all clients completing our online application and visiting our office have 
been affected in some manner by COVID, having lost wages as a  staff member 
due to a  closing, having lost a job entirely, having  to decline work w ith children 
at home who needed care or having been laid off or furloughed. 
•  Pay salaries associated with the additional staff members hired to manage 
COVID-19 counsel and funding. As  Needllnk Nashville was also managing ou r 
more typical emergency needs, one-half of staff time was allocated to COVID 
specific care, though 3/41h  of our funding during this time was associated with 
COVID-19 care. 
•  Enable our new and former staff members to work remotely with the equipment 
and technology to ensure that our services could continue.  This included 
technology hardware and software to provide staff members laptops for 
remote work and phones for tele-counsel directly with clients. Included also was 
IT support for this  operation. 
•  Expand our service model to additional provisions of financial assistance through 
an on line application system. This included our design of an online application 
with fees from Formstack, Docu-Sign and increased Comcast capacity. 
•  Work with a tremendous increase in the demand for our services to provide 
immediate financial assistance during this economic crisis. This included 
additional hours and costs for our Accounting Contract Services (named under 
Professional Fees. This included an overwhelmingly significant increase in the 
number of clients we communicated with by mail during this  period to notify of 
funding or unfortunate denial due to the need for documentation not submitted or 
additional documentation required for a funding decision. 
9 
ARCHIVE
