MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING 
BY AND BETWEEN 
THE METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING AGENCY AND 
THE METROPOLITAN GOVERNMENT OF NASHVILLE AND DAVIDSON COUNTY 
L-4388
TWS MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING ("MOU") made and entered into this 
-E.  day  of 
the  METROPOLITAN 
DEVELOPMENT  AND  ROUSTN  AGENCY  a public  body  corporate and  politic organized 
under the Tennessee Housing Authority  Law, T.C.A.  § 13-20-101  !tl seq.  (hereinafter referred to 
as  "MDHA "')  and  THE  METRO POLIT AN  GOVERNMENT  OF  NASHVILLE  AND 
DAVIDSON COUNTY (hereinafter referred to as ·•Metro"). 
,  2020  by  and  between 
c..,.. -.1c. ✓ 
WITNESSETH 
WHEREAS,  Metro  wishes  to  create a  position,  Director of Shared  Strategy and  Impact, 
(hereinafter referred to as "The Position") to support collaboration across all Metro departments, 
non-profit  partners.  and other government agencies  to  help create more effective and  collective 
systems of support and opportunity for those experiencing poverty; and, 
WHEREAS, MDHA desires to contribute to the remediation of homelessness and support 
ffiJD's strategic goals relating to reducing homelessness; and, 
WHEREAS,  MDHA  believes  that  the  creation  of the  Position  will  contribute  to  this 
mission; and, 
WHEREAS, through a collaborative approach,  Metro and  MDHA  desire  to jointly  fund 
the Position for a one-year period. 
NOW, THEREFORE, for  good  and  valuable  consideration,  receipt  of which  is hereby 
acknowledged and for the mutual promises contained herein, the parties agree as follows: 
I. 
SCOPE  OF  SERVICES:  MDHA  shall  contribute  to  the  salary  and  benefits  costs 
attributable  to  the  Position  for  the  T crm  as  set  forth  in  Paragraph  II  subject  to  periodic 
review and approval  by the MDHA Board of Commissioners. MOH.A's contribution and 
participation in this MOU  is contingent upon the position embracing HUD's specific goal 
of reducing homelessness as set forth in the HUD 2018-2022 Strategic Plan. The Position 
shall, among other things  set forth  in  the  Position Description attached  hereto as  Exhibit 
A,  specifically focus on the following objectives of the  Strategic Plan: 
Implement cost-effective strategies  across Continuums of Care (CoCs) and  other 
HUD-assisted  housing  resources  that  target  resources  to  those  with  the  highest 
need; 
Target  HUD-Department  or Veterans  Affairs  (VA)  Supportive  Housing  (HUD 
Y ASH) to the most wlncrable veterans experiencing homelessness; 
A. 
B. 
1Nllll75IIO.ll 
ARCHIVE
The  Position  Description  attached  as  Exhibit  A  sets  forth  in  greater detail  the  role  and 
expectations for the Position. 
II. 
TIME OF  PERFORMANCE 
A. 
B. 
Services provided under this MOU  shall commence on the 
\ 5 ~  day of __  _ 
]  c. ~ ... "-"'=l • 2020 and  tenninatc  one  ( 1)  year  thereafter  (lhe  'Term");  at  the 
option ofMDIIA, this MOU may be extended one additional period of twelve (12) 
months. 
This  MOU  may  be  terminated  by  either  MDHA  or Metro  upon  thirty  (30) days 
written notice to the other party. 
Ill. 
EMPLOYMENT  RELATlONSHTP  AND  SUPERVISION:  The  Position  will  be 
considered  an  employee  of  the  Metropolitan  Government,  with  no  employment 
relationship  being  created  between  the  Position  and  MDHA.  The  Position  will  report 
directly to  Metro Department of Social  Services.  To  the  extent  necessary to  achieve the 
goals of the HUD 2018-2022 Strategic Plan or other functions of the position pertaining to 
MDHA and the remediation  of homelessness,  the MDHA Executive Director shall work 
directly with the Director of the Metro Department of Social Services. 
IV.  MDHA  CONTRIBUTION:  MDHA  shall  contribute  the  sum  of seventy-two  thousand 
eight hundred ($72,800.00) dollars toward the salary and benefits of the position. This sum 
shall  be broken down  into twelve monthly installments. with such  installments paid on a 
monthly  basis to Metro on or before  the  5th day of every month  for  the duration of this 
MOU, including the extension period if exercised. Should this MOU be tenninated, MDHA 
shall be under no additional obligation to provide funds toward the Position. 
V. 
REPORT  TO  THE  MDHA  BOARD  OF  COMMISSIONERS:  The  Position  shall 
prepare a written report of its accomplishments, milestones, work performed, opportunities 
identified,  and  such  other  information  as  may  be  requested  by  the  MDHA  Board  of 
Commissioners, and present the written report at the June and December meetings of the 
MDHA  Board  of Commissioners.  The  written  report  shall  be  furnished  to  the  MDHA 
Executive Director one week prior to the scheduled Board meeting. 
VI. 
FILES  AND  RECORDS:  All  payroll,  personnel,  and  other  employment  records 
pertaining to the Position shall  be accessible to MDHA for any purpose. 
VII.  ASSIGNMENT:  Neither  Metro  nor  MDHA may  assign  its  rights  or delegate  its duties 
under this MOU. 
VIII.  NOTICES: All notices under this MOU shall be in writing and sent to the addresses listed 
below for each party: 
IND3l7560.lf 
2 
ARCHIVE
\lclropolihrn  Dcnlopmcnt and  Jlousin,:  A,:cm·~ 
·\lll'nli1111: 
\Ir  faml's  1-..  llarliisu11.  l·.\l.'l'llli,l'  l>irl'l'lor 
711 I  South Si,th S!rl .. 'l'l 
'\ash, illl'.  I 1..•nnl'ssl'I.'  '7~11(, 
\lctropolitan (;unrnment or '.\ash, ilk &  D1l\ id sun  ( ·uunt) 
\lll'lllion: 
R1..01ll'l'  Prall.  l·.\l'l'Uti,c  D1rl'clor.  \klnipulilan Social  Sl'n 1c1..·:-. 
XOO  ~'"1 .\\l'lllll' :--.orth 
\.asln ilk.  I l'lllll'SSl'l'  .'7.:!0 I 
IX . 
EYl"IIH: l'NllERSTAMll'.\(; A:--.iD  i\lOlllFIC.\TION:  I hi,  \I( II  .:011la11h  tlw  l'nlirl' 
I his  \ll ll  ma~  hl' 
unJl'NanJing  hl'l\\l'l'll  \11>1  I:\  and  \k1n1  rq!arJing  thl.'  Pt1,i111111 
nwdilil'd  11111~  h~  \Hill1..·11  agrl'l.'1111.·111  sigm:J  h~  till'  parlil's 
\\Ill 
ha, l'  110  l'l li:i.:t. 
( )ral  cha11g1.•:-.  1111h1,  \1( JI 
\IETROPOLITA:"li  l>E\'El.OPI\IENT ANll IIOl'SIM; AGEN('\ 
.la1m::-.  Harbison.  l·.:\l'i.:uti\l'  l>irl'l'lor 
J c.  "' 
l>a11: 
'1. 
1., 0 1.. O 
\IETH.OPOI.ITA:".  c;O\'Elt:"!\IENT OF '.\ASll\'ILLE &  DA \'ll>SOi'i ('01 NT) 
~ 
APPROVE I>  AS  TO A \'AILAIULIT\' OF J-TM>S: 
APPIHl\'Ell AS  TO FORM AND LEGALITY: 
,.  - -· 
f  [ 
:  ..  -
.  l  C 
• 
I 
\11)1 I.\ ,\llllfll\.') 
l)ali.: 
I )all' 
- - - ----+--=--
l, u t..,-0 
-
6-19-20 
l)ah: 
ARCHIVE
. .  .. 
APPROVED AS TO INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS: 
Director of Insurance 
FILED WITH: 
METROPOLITAN CLERK 
6/5/2020 
Date 
6/23/2020
Date 
(N032751S0.1} 
4 
ARCHIVE
Exhibit A 
ARCHIVE
CLASS TITLE:  DIRECTOR, SHARED STRATEGY AND IMPACT (DUAL METRO/MDHA ROLE) 
A.  JOB OBJECTIVE 
Under the direction of both Metro Social Services and MDHA, with a  direct line to the Mayor's Office,  the Director 
of Shared Strategy and Impact will support collaboration across all Metro departments, non-profit partners, and other 
government  agencies  to  help  create  more  effective  and  collective  systems  of  support  and  opportunity  for  those 
experiencing or at risk of experiencing homelessness. Embedded within existing work and departments,  the director 
will work with others  to  create  shared,  transparent,  and efficient  strategies that result in greater impact on  tough 
community challenges.  The position's structure reflects its collaborative and shared nature with funding provided in 
the  budgets  of Metro  Social  Services  and  MDHA.  The  position  also  reflects  the  Mayor's  Office's  focus  on  resource 
effectiveness and the need for Metro departments, the Mayor's Office, and the larger community to work in ways that 
are collaborative, shared, and better serve Nashvillians. 
The position will focus  on priority areas with others as determined by community need.  The priority area for  the 
initial  work  is  homelessness,  including  the  following:  cold  weather  sheltering;  coordinated  entry;  data  collection, 
sharing and usage for  system improvement. 
B.  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
1.  Essential Functions 
This position will work closely with the homeless leadership  teams at MDHA and MSS and serve as liaison with 
the Mayor's Office to enhance current collaborative work on homelessness. As such, the Metro Director of Shared 
Strategy and Impact will support community efforts to: 
•  Develop  a  shared  strategy  for  Metro  and  MDHA  to  leverage  and  accelerate  community  impact  on 
homelessness  and  housing,  aligning  with  goals  set  forth  by  HUD,  Continuum  of Care,  and  community 
homeless  strategy planning,  and the  existing Homeless Planning Council Strategic Community Plan,  as 
well as identified highest impact gaps to execution of planning, including what role MDHA and Metro can 
appropriately play to help solve them with community partners; 
•  Develop  and  implement  strategies  which  specifically  address  HUD's  Strategic  Objective  of  reducing 
homelessness  as  set forth  in  the  2018-2022  HUD  Strategic  Plan,  specifically  focused  on  the  following 
strategies:  create  an  unsheltered  homelessness  strategy  that  targets  technical  assistance  and  other 
resources  to  communities  that have  had  large  increases  in  unsheltered  homelessness;  implement  cost 
effective  strategies  across  Continuums  of Care  (CoCs)  and  other HUD-assisted  housing  resources  that 
target  resources  to  those  with  the  highest  need;  target  HUD-Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  (VA) 
Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) to the most vulnerable veterans experiencing homelessness. 
•  Set short-term  and  intermediate-term  impact  goals  for  Metro  and  MDHA  regarding  a  shared  strategic 
homelessness  plan  for  the,  based  on  highest-and-best  use  roles  and  unique  capabilities  of Metro  and 
MDHA; 
• 
• 
Identify  strategically  critical  data  and  information  for  needs  assessment,  strategy  development  and 
execution for  Metro,  MDHA,  and the community, e.g., ways to  accelerate capability builds around HMIS 
(led by Metro) and HUD Point-in-Time Count (led by MDHA); 
Identify  strategically  critical capabilities for  Metro  and  MDHA  to  further  in  support of shared strategy 
and  work  within  departments  and  MDHA;  help  Metro  and  MDHA  and  its  related  departments  and 
agencies better break down silos and build and cross-leverage critical capabilities; 
•  Assist both Metro and MDHA in its continuous work to strengthen stakeholder relationships around social 
services, housing,  and homelessness. 
•  Attend meetings, prepare reports,  maintain records,  and such other related duties as required. 
2.  Equipment Used 
Computer and related software, general office equipment, and automobile. 
3.  Supervision Exercised 
May supervise administrative support employees as assigned. 
Non- U nion eligible . 
Printed : 2/14/2020 
FLSA: Exempt 
ARCHIVE
C.  EMPLOYMENTSTANDARDS 
1.  Education and Experience Required 
Master's degree and/or experience in systems change, organizational leadership, and community-based action 
and at least five  (5)  years of senior-level experience in community outreach, advocacy,  and evidence-based 
systems change related to poverty,  homelessness, and other community needs. 
2.  Knowledge, Skills and Abilities Required 
Knowledge and understanding of the federal regulations related to the Stewart B.  McKinney Homeless 
Assistance Act as amended by S.  896 Homeless Emergency Assistance and Rapid Transition to Housing 
(HEARTH) Act of 2009; ability to interpret and understand federal rules and regulations; knowledge of 
funding resources; ability to  prepare applications for  grants; knowledge of zoning requirements for varied 
housing options for  the homeless; understanding of the needs of the homeless and knowledge of existing 
resources that address these needs;  ability to  communicate effectively both orally and in writing; ability to 
maintain effective working relationships; and the willingness and mental and physical ability to perform 
duties involved in this classification. Ability to perform work with or without an accommodation that 
requires sitting, standing, and walking, dexterity of hands and clarity of vision, speech and hearing and 
powers of observation; other physical duties as required. 
Non- Union eligible. 
Printed: 211412020 
FLSA: Exempt 
ARCHIVE
Three years ago,  Gideon's Army came out with a set of recommendations for MNPD. Gideon's 
Army requested the following reforms: 
Institute a civilian oversight board. 
Institute racial impact tools. 
•  End  broken windows/quality of life policing. 
•  End  Operation Safer Streets. 
•  Divest from excessive policing and  invest in  communities. 
• 
• 
•  End  consent searches and  pat down searches during traffic stops. 
•  Radically overhaul MNPD's traffic stop training program. 
•  Equip all  patrol cars with audiovisual recording devices. 
•  Reject militarization 
• 
•  Employ restorative justice as  a foundational principle. 
Improve transparency and  accountability. 
The  Policing Project then reviewed Gideon's Army's finding and  came up with its own set of 
recommendations: 
•  Reduce the number of traffic stops 
•  Acknowledge black residents have been  disproportionately affected by MNPD's stop 
practices 
•  Monitor racial disparities on an  ongoing basis 
•  Redeploy officer resources toward more effective crime-fighting tools 
•  Consider adopting a Neighborhood Policing strategy 
•  Post its department policies online 
•  Conduct a review of certain  key policies such  as  use of force 
•  Conduct a review of training around  use of force, traffic stops, and  procedural justice 
•  Adopt a body camera  policy with attention to transparency regarding the release of 
footage 
In  response to these recommendations, MNPD made significant changes to the way it operates. 
It effectively ended hot spot policing (what Gideon's Army calls broken windows policing.) It 
ended  Operation Safer Streets and stopped doing the types of traffic stops that played such  a 
large role in triggering the initial report.  (They do still do consent searches on  occasion,  as  most 
police departments do.) Those changes resulted in  a sharp drop in  arrests. (Traffic stops, down 
more than 70 percent over the past two years.  Physical  arrests, down by 25  percent.) Nashville 
has promoted restorative justice, most notably in the juvenile system.  Nashville created a 
civilian oversight board. We are deploying BWCs  and in-car cameras.  Department policies are 
online. The  department releases voluminous statistics every week as  part of the Compstat 
process, which is open to the public. It certainly isn't perfect, but progress is  being made. 
ARCHIVE
(Other good things are  happening. We  are moving ahead with body cameras.  I just got off a call 
with the COB  executive committee. It was great to hear that they had  reviewed the policy 
(available on line!) and that they thought it reflected  national best practices.  Progress!  We've 
also found  a way to expand COB  access to the discovery process. Great progress.) 
You'd also asked  about community engagement. That's something that we think is  really 
exciting.  Here's what has happened to date. In August 2017, MNPD put walking patrols into 
Cayce  Homes.  Instead of chasing calls on the radio, officers were encouraged to work on 
relationships.  It appears to have been  a successful program. Crime in Cayce is fell 30 percent 
between 2018 and  2019.  In  January 2018, West Precinct redeployed its flex team as  a 
community engagement team.  Part of the unit's job was to help organize the community itself 
(i.e.,  "build collective efficacy.") I actually heard about it a conference in  New York,  hosted  by 
Barry Friedman from the Policing Project.  Former NIJ  president Jeremy Travis was there with 
me.  We were both struck by what a cool approach it was.  Since that started, calls for service in 
that area  have fallen  by 26  percent.  MNPD actually presented on  it at the IACP  conference last 
fall.  The department now wants to expand it to Napier/University Court. (The  obstacle: limited 
numbers of officers.) 
As  a policing wonk, the chance to expand these efforts is  really exciting. The opportunity here is 
the chance to partner with neighborhoods to produce the type of safety that neighborhoods 
want. Groups such  as the Center for Policing Equity and the Policing Project are piloting models 
in  which neighborhoods set their priorities for public safety and  police are accountable to those 
goals.  We can  do that here in  Nashville.  However, it requires police departments to put officers 
in  neighborhoods and  keep them there (i.e.,  "take them off the radio.") Standard  practice is 
that community policing officers need to reserve 30 percent of their time for community 
engagement and  problem solving (i.e., not be on call.).  Departments need officers to do that. 
And  MNPD is  already a small force, compared to other similar size cities. 
The  bottom line is that the we need to make sure we have enough  officers to reform policing. 
Also,  that there is  a great opportunity to help neighborhoods organize to set their own public 
safety priorities, in  a transparent way; to partner with police and  hold MNPD accountable to 
neighborhood objectives; and  start doing public safety together. It would be  really exciting to 
do that here. As you can  tell, it is something we are actively exploring. 
ARCHIVE
