EXTENSION ONE OF
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
THE METROPOLITAN HOMELESSNESS COMMISSION
AND
THE METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING AGENCY
This Extension One ("Extension One") is hereby made and entered into this  31. .  day of
, 2018, by and between the Metropolitan Homelessness Commission ("MHC")
and the Metropolitan Development and Housing Agency ("MDHA");
the fJifeti
WITNESSETH
WHEREAS, MDHA and MHC ("the Parties") entered into a Memorandum of Understanding
("MOU") dated June 16, 2017, in which MDHA collaborated with the MHC on a Demonstration
Program ("Program") by prioritizing a limited number of housing choice vouchers ("Vouchers") for
Section 8 housing for the most vulnerable homeless individuals and families in Nashville through
the national effort to effectively end and prevent literal homelessness initiated originally by the
100,000 Homes Campaign (knovra locally as "How's Nashville"); and
WHEREAS, said MOU expires on June 30, 2018, and Section 4 of the MOU provides that it
may be extended yearly for up to three (3) additional terms of twelve (12) months each term; and
WHEREAS, the Parties desire to extend the MOU for an additional term, effective July 1, 2018,
through June 30, 2019; and
THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows:
1.  Extension of Agreement: The term of Extension One shall be from the 1  day of July, 2018,
to the 3 O''^ day of June, 2019.
2.  Entire Asxeement: This Extension One, together with the Agreement, constitutes the final,
complete and exclusive statemeht of the agreement between the parties.
3.  Agreement Continuance: All other terms and conditions of the Agreement shall remain
unchanged and continue during the term of Extension One as set forth herein.
JUN 1 4 2018
metropolitan
CLERK
ARCHIVE
/
 «
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Agreement.
METROPOLITAN HOMELESSNESS
METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT
COMMISSION
AND HOUSING AGENCY
I'ratt, Executive Director
Metro Social Services
Date: 44/Ap
arbison, Exec^^^Directbr
APPROVED AS TO LEGALITY AND
FORM:
Attorney for MDHA
Attorney for MHi
ARCHIVE
L-^o 3/
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
BETWEEN THE METROPOLITAN HOMELBSSNESS COMMISSION
AND THE METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING AGENCY
//■^
mis MEMOROTJUM of tiNDERST^DING C'MOU") is entered into  this  _[<£_
. 2017, by and, betwOen the Metropolitan Homelessness Commission ("MHC")
day of 
and the Metropolitan Development and Housing Agency ("MDHA").
WITNESSETH
WHEREAS,  the  Built  for  Zero  Campaign  ("Campaign")  is  a  national  initiative  to
prioritize housing for people experiencing homelessness who are most likely to die on the streets
without intervention; and
WHEREAS,  the  MHC  desires  to  join  this  campaign  and  work  to  reduce  chronic
homelessness  in Nashville  by  systemieaily  identifying  those  most  in  need  and ^  securiiig
pemranent housing and supportive seiyices thi'ough collaboration and coordination with public
and private partners; and
WHEREAS, MDHA desires to collaborate with the MHC on a Demonstration Program
('Trogram") by prioritizing a limited number  of housing choice  vouchem  ("Vouchers")  for
Seclion 8 housing fpr the most vulnerable homeless individuals and families in Nashville; and
WHEREAS, MDHA and the MHC find it necessary  and convenient to enter into this
MOU to state each entity's responsibilities moving forward with the Program.
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the. mutual covenants set forth herein,
and  other  good and  valuable  consideration, the  receipt and sufficiency  of which  are  hereby
acknowledged, MDHA and the MHC agree as follows:
Section 1. 
Responsibilities of the MHC
1.  BrCvide technical assistance; trahiing, and hnplemehtatipn support for the Vnlhc) ability
Index  Service  PfiGritizatioit  Deeisioh  Assistiuice  Tpol' ("VI-SPDAT')to  partner  with
agencies which identify the most vulnerable homeless individuals ("Client" or "Clients")
and families in Nashville. 
2.  Through community coordination, ensure that housing navigators identify and prroritize
j  • 
•  •
. 
^ 
_ 
the most vulnerable Clients for housi ng placement.
3.  Submit referrals to MDHA for Vouchers, Such referrals shall include VI-SPDAT scoring
and be submitted to MDHA no later than the 25'" of each month to be placed on the list
the follpwuig month. Should a Coordinated Entry System (CES) be established dming.
the term (including any extension) of this; MOU, upon implementation of tire CES, MHC
agrees to submit all referrals in accordance witli the CES requirements. Before submitting
referrals, MPIC  will validate that each  referral:  1) Includes  appropriate verification of
homelessness; 2) Includes releases of information from Clients, which permit the legal
ARCHIVE
sharing of information with MDHA and homeless service providers and compliance witii
all privacy laws, including but not limited to, refen'ing the matter to MDHA and entering
3) Has
Client data into the Homeless Management Information System ("HMIS"); 
been updated in HMIS to include all required documentation and HMIS Universal Data
Elements and program specific data elements.
4. Partner with homeless service providers to support Client's transition from homelessness
to being housed and to offer ongoing supportive services, including but not limited to,
assisting  Clients  with  the  application  process  (including  assembling  required
documentation), assisting Clients with the housing search process, and providing case
management to help ensure Program and lease compliance.
5.  Monitor Voucher utilization rates for this Program and work with MDHA, landlords, and
homeless service providers to identify and remover barriers to Voucher utilization.
6.  Notify MDHA when MHC is aware that a Client becomes non-compiiant with a service
plan or other requirements of supportive sei-vices provisions.
7.  Investigate and address complaints regarding data collection and VI-SPDAT scoring,
8.  Enter data into any additionally mutually agreed upon collection tools.
Section 2. 
Responsibilities of MDHA
1.  Provide for the acceptance of paper applications from homeless preference applicants
referred from the MHC at all times.
2.  Provide that all applications in which the homeless preference is claimed must include a
certification by a local homeless service provider that the applicant meets the Category 1
definition of "homeless" pursuant to HUD rules and regulations.
3. Provide additional preferences to allow a higher priority (extra preference points) based
upon the applicant's VI-SPDAT score as determined by the MHC.
4.  Once each month, as long as funding is available, provide for selection of up to eighteen
(18) appIiGatibhs qualifyingTor .the homeless profcraTice from MHC referrals tteptigli this
Prqgramv (Selections for a mprith shall be front referrals made by the 25'' of the preceding
month.  Applicants with the highest preference total will be selected in that order.
Applicants not selected will remain on the waiting list to be considered for selection the
subsequent month(s) according to the procedure established herein.
5.  Determine eligibility for those selected pursuant to paragraph 4 above in accordance with
the current Section 8 Administrative Plan eligibility requirements.
6.  Provide Housing Assistance Payments ("HAPs") to iandloi"ds on behalf of clients in
accordaiice with MDHA's AdmihislTative Plan for Sectipn 8 Propms and all other
relevant HUD rules and regulations.
7. Notify the MHC if MDHA becomes aware or discovers that a Client is in violation of
Program rules. 
,
8. Insure that Clients and landlords: comply with all federafyules and regulations governing
Seetion 8 Pirdgrams and all loeal and state laws and fake any action that is avSiiiable to
MDHA in instances of noncompliance.
9. Enter data relevant to the Voucher Program into the HMIS and any additionally mutually
agreed upon collection tools.
ARCHIVE
10, Provide the MHC, upon request, reports regarding the value of Voucher payments made
on behalf of Clients participating in this Program for the purpose of utilizing such
amounts for matching requirements.
Section 3. 
Representations
1,  MDHA does not guarantee that every applicant referred through tliis Program will be
selected and does not guarantee that every applicant that receives a Voucher will be
placed in housing.
2.  MDHA makes no representations as to the validity and accuracy of the data collected
tlirough the VI-SPDAT score.
Section 4. 
Time and Performance
This MOU shall be effective on the 1'' day oflqly, 2017, and end on the 10"' day of jiine.
2018. Per the written agidcmeht of the parties, the parties: may extend the; Program for a periqd
of up to three (3) additional terms of twelve (12) months each term.
Section 5. 
Contacts
For the purpose of this Program, the following parties are designated as primaiy contacts for
each entity, and these persons shall receive any written notice provided herein:
Metropolitan Development and Housing Agency
James E. Harbison, Executive Director
701 South Sixth Street
Nashville, Temiessee 37206
Metropolitan Homelessness Commission
Judith Tackett, Interim Director
800 2"" Avenue North
Nashville, Tennessee 37201
Section 6. 
Termination
This MOU may be terminated by either party upon thkty (30) days written notice.
Section?. 
Modification of Agreement
Tills MOU constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the Program and
tlie subject matter hereof and fnay be modified only by a written instrument signed by the
authoilzed reprcsehtativc of both pities. Oralmodifications shall have no effect.
ARCHIVE
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undeisigned have executed this Agreement.
METROPOLITAN HOMELESSNESS
COMMISSION
METROPOLITAN DEVELOPMENT
AND HOUSING AGENCY
Renee Pratt, Executive Director
Metro Social Services
Jam4? E. Harbison, Executive Director
MDHA
Date:
OiJle: 
il
APPROVED AS TO LEGALITY AND
FORM;
Attorney for MDHA
Attorney for MHC
ARCHIVE
